{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\f37\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f44\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 \styrsid11079361 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive 
\ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \ssemihidden \styrsid11079361 footnote text;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 \ssemihidden \styrsid11079361 endnote text;}{\*\cs17 \additive \super \sbasedon10 \ssemihidden \styrsid3150435 footnote reference;}}{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0}
{\*\rsidtbl \rsid852520\rsid1990576\rsid2582888\rsid3150435\rsid3620650\rsid4532327\rsid5003900\rsid5582226\rsid5992589\rsid7163639\rsid7411792\rsid7558185\rsid7673641\rsid7810509\rsid8872043\rsid9660718\rsid9702281\rsid10110449\rsid10825353\rsid10882721
\rsid10962883\rsid11079361\rsid11344323\rsid12933720\rsid13305844\rsid13382480\rsid13570958\rsid13584126\rsid13774313\rsid13846530\rsid14046930\rsid14491844\rsid14638018\rsid15278860\rsid15487621\rsid15751560\rsid16519982}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 11.
0.5604;}{\info{\title Earliest Writing and Edgeworthian Education}{\author  }{\operator  }{\creatim\yr2005\mo9\dy12\hr14\min58}{\revtim\yr2006\mo1\dy17\hr23\min32}{\version19}{\edmins1201}{\nofpages17}{\nofwords4416}{\nofchars25173}
{\*\company Southeastern Louisiana University}{\nofcharsws29530}{\vern24689}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1
\dgvshow1\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct
\asianbrkrule\rsidroot11079361\newtblstyruls\nogrowautofit \fet0{\*\ftnsep \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11079361 \chftnsep 
\par }}{\*\ftnsepc \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11079361 \chftnsepc 
\par }}{\*\aftnsep \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11079361 \chftnsep 
\par }}{\*\aftnsepc \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11079361 \chftnsepc 
\par }}\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\sl480\slmult1
\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid11079361 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22\insrsid13382480 <head1>}{\fs22\insrsid11079361 Earliest Writing and Edgeworthian Education
\par }{\fs22\insrsid5582226 
\par }{\fs22\insrsid15278860 Marilyn Butler divides Maria Edgeworth's}{\fs22\insrsid5582226  works for children into tales, which }{\fs22\insrsid15278860 Butler regards}{\fs22\insrsid5582226  as "virtually an original literary form" }{\fs22\insrsid15278860 
invented }{\fs22\insrsid5582226 by Maria, and lessons,}{\fs22\insrsid15278860  devised "}{\fs22\insrsid5582226 for the purpos
e of teaching facts about chemistry, physics, mechanics, and other sciences, as well as certain specific injunctions about behaviour--truth-telling, obedience to parents, and so on" (}{\fs22\insrsid7558185 <Maria Edgeworth> }{\fs22\insrsid5582226 168).}{
\fs22\insrsid10110449\charrsid10110449  }{\fs22\insrsid10110449 The foundations for the two genres were laid}{\fs22\insrsid15487621 ,}{\fs22\insrsid10110449  respectively, }{\fs22\insrsid15487621 in the collection of}{\fs22\insrsid10110449  tales }{
\i\fs22\insrsid10110449 The Parent's Assistant}{\fs22\insrsid10110449  (1796; 2d ed., 1800) and}{\fs22\insrsid15487621  in the theoretical treatise (not}{\fs22\insrsid10110449  lessons}{\fs22\insrsid15487621  aimed directly at children)}{
\fs22\insrsid10110449  }{\i\fs22\insrsid10110449 Practical Education}{\fs22\insrsid15487621  (1798; 2d ed., 1801). Butler's}{\fs22\insrsid12933720  distinction in genres is useful in understanding the Ruskin family's uses of Edgeworth}{
\fs22\insrsid15278860 '}{\fs22\insrsid12933720 s works}{\fs22\insrsid10110449 . Despite}{\fs22\insrsid12933720  Ruskin}{\fs22\insrsid10110449 's}{\fs22\insrsid2582888  later admiration for Edgeworth's tales and novels,}{\fs22\insrsid15487621  it appears}{
\fs22\insrsid2582888  in boyhood }{\fs22\insrsid15487621 that }{\fs22\insrsid2582888 he was}{\fs22\insrsid12933720  either given the books of}{\fs22\insrsid2582888  lessons by his parents or}{\fs22\insrsid12933720  more personally drawn to that genre}{
\fs22\insrsid2582888 --or both--}{\fs22\insrsid12933720 a}{\fs22\insrsid2582888 s compared with tales. L}{\fs22\insrsid12933720 essons are }{\fs22\insrsid3620650 prominently}{\fs22\insrsid12933720  and steadily represented in the juvenilia
 by <Harry and Lucy I, II, and III>,}{\fs22\insrsid3620650  }{\fs22\insrsid2582888 whereas }{\fs22\insrsid3620650 tales are limited to . . . Ruskin did not make his first sustained attempt at writing tales until much later, around age ?, and then the}{
\fs22\insrsid2582888  more}{\fs22\insrsid3620650  immediate model was not Maria Edgeworth but George Croly (see <MS ?>).
\par }{\fs22\insrsid8872043 
\par <head2> Practical Education
\par The}{\fs22\insrsid15487621  Edgeworths' program for education}{\fs22\insrsid8872043 , as developed in }{\i\fs22\insrsid8872043 Practical Education,}{\fs22\insrsid8872043  was to }{\fs22\insrsid15487621 approach it }{\fs22\insrsid8872043 
as an empirical and experimental science, based on what children actually do and sa
y and not on theoretical system. Children should be allowed to acquire knowledge by their own experience, without apprehension of being directed by "the dictatorial anathematizing tone . . . of a theorist" (Edgeworth, }{\i\fs22\insrsid8872043 
Practical Education,}{\fs22\insrsid8872043  15).}{\fs22\insrsid4532327  To promote experimentation, the Edgeworths advocated}{\fs22\insrsid15487621 , for example,}{\fs22\insrsid4532327 
 replacing mechanical and gilt toys, which can only be passively admired, with "pieces of wood of various shapes and sizes, which they may build up and pull down, and put in a variety o
f different forms and positions" (ibid., 16). [Develop toys issue with Hanson and Emerson]
\par \tab To prevent children from being stymied in their experimental efforts, the Edgeworths emphasize gradated learning}{\fs22\insrsid15487621 . In }{\i\fs22\insrsid15487621 Practical Education,}{\fs22\insrsid4532327  Maria ridicul}{\fs22\insrsid15487621 es
}{\fs22\insrsid4532327  assign}{\fs22\insrsid15487621 ing young children}{\fs22\insrsid4532327  elaborate}{\fs22\insrsid15487621  tasks in}{\fs22\insrsid4532327  gardening and carpentering before }{\fs22\insrsid15487621 they}{\fs22\insrsid4532327 
 are capable of handling specialized tools}{\fs22\insrsid13846530 . Materials should be kept simple in order to retain the focus on "simple facts" that the mind can "reason upon," inducing the 
child "to judge of the different conclusions which are drawn from [the facts] by different people" (26)}{\fs22\insrsid4532327 .  But Ruskin's orrery and puppet theater. . . . }{\fs22\insrsid8872043 
\par }{\fs22\insrsid7411792 
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid8872043 {\fs22\insrsid8872043 The order in which the lessons were meant to be read, which did not correspond to the order in whi
ch they were written, had been laid out by Richard Lovell Edgeworth in the "Address to Mothers" (1801)--so far, at least, as the lessons had been written: "}{\insrsid8872043 
Frank is the easiest to be understood; and should therefore have come first; after Frank, the first 
part of Harry and Lucy; then Rosamond; and, lastly, the second part of Harry and Lucy. . . .  This latter part should not be put into the hands of pupils before they are eight years old" (???). All these had first been published in 1801??? as }{
\i\insrsid8872043 Early Lessons}{\insrsid8872043 . After this, }{\i\insrsid8872043 Continuation of Early Lessons,}{\insrsid8872043  published in 1813??, contained more parts of }{\i\insrsid8872043 Harry and Lucy, Frank,}{\insrsid8872043  and }{
\i\insrsid8872043 Rosamond.}{\insrsid8872043  Further parts of }{\i\insrsid8872043 Rosamond}{\insrsid8872043  and }{\i\insrsid8872043 Frank,}{\insrsid8872043  published in 1821 and 1822 respectively, were directed at ten- to thirteen-year-olds. Finally, }
{\i\insrsid8872043 Harry and Lucy Concluded,}{\insrsid8872043  released in 1825, brought the heroes along with their readers to age fourteen. 
\par \tab }{\fs22\insrsid8872043 Ruskin starts at the wrong end of the lessons, taking the last ones first, which were intended for elder children. Similarly, he starts with the most advanced experiments in Joyce.}{\fs22\insrsid13382480 
\par }{\fs22\insrsid8872043 
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid11079361 {\fs22\insrsid13382480 <head2>Dialogue
\par }{\fs22\insrsid2582888 \tab While i}{\fs22\insrsid15278860 n Butler}{\fs22\insrsid10962883 's view}{\fs22\insrsid15278860  t}{\fs22\insrsid3620650 he Edgeworthian lesson}{\fs22\insrsid15278860  was a less original creation than Maria's tales}{
\fs22\insrsid10962883 , the form can be seen as supplying a framework, however loosely, for the exchange between Ruskin and his parents that lies at the core of his education}{\fs22\insrsid15278860 . The form was originally developed}{
\fs22\insrsid5582226  by Maria's father, Richard Lovel}{\fs22\insrsid3620650 l Edgeworth, and his second wife, Honora}{\fs22\insrsid10962883 ; and}{\fs22\insrsid15278860 ,}{\fs22\insrsid10962883 
 while Edgeworth scholars are justifiably anxious now to credit Maria with the form's}{\fs22\insrsid15278860  realization in }{\i\fs22\insrsid10110449 Early Lessons,}{\fs22\insrsid10110449  which included }{\i\fs22\insrsid10110449 Harry and Lucy, Fr}{
\i\fs22\insrsid15278860 ank,}{\fs22\insrsid10110449  and }{\i\fs22\insrsid10110449 Rosamond}{\i\fs22\insrsid10962883 ,}{\fs22\insrsid10962883  Maria's own insistence on her father's contribution highlights the importance of collaboration and exchange}{
\fs22\insrsid3620650 . As Richard}{\fs22\insrsid10110449  Lovell}{\fs22\insrsid3620650  Edgeworth acknowledges in }{\fs22\insrsid9702281 ????,}{\fs22\insrsid10110449  Mrs. Barbauld developed}{\fs22\insrsid9702281  the }{\fs22\insrsid10110449 basis of the 
}{\fs22\insrsid9702281 genre}{\fs22\insrsid10110449  in ???? by writing a}{\fs22\insrsid5582226  dialogue form of instruction}{\fs22\insrsid10110449  that employs}{\fs22\insrsid13584126  }{\fs22\insrsid5582226 simple language}{\fs22\insrsid13584126 
 accessible to a child}{\fs22\insrsid2582888 . }{\fs22\insrsid10962883 
\par }{\fs22\insrsid13382480 
\par <head2>Science and Religion
\par }{\fs22\insrsid10962883 \tab }{\fs22\insrsid13382480 In 1820, a year after Ruskin was born, the reception of the Edgeworths' educational ideas reached a nadir. With the publication of }{\i\fs22\insrsid13382480 Memoirs of Richard Lovell Edgeworth,}{
\fs22\insrsid15751560  written}{\fs22\insrsid13382480  by himself and Maria}{\fs22\insrsid15751560 
, conservative and religious reviewers refused to condone the absence of religion in the Edgeworths' writings as mere avoidance of controversy, instead pronouncing the works atheistic and subversive (Manly, introduction to}{\fs22\insrsid1990576 
 Edgeworth,}{\fs22\insrsid15751560  }{\i\fs22\insrsid15751560 Practical Education,}{\fs22\insrsid15751560  11:xvi-xvii). . . .}{\fs22\insrsid13382480  }{\fs22\insrsid14491844 
\par }{\fs22\insrsid7163639 \tab [See happiness, practical ed 28]
\par }{\fs22\insrsid14491844 \tab Butler treats }{\fs22\insrsid13584126 t}{\fs22\insrsid12933720 he Edgeworths' employment of th}{\fs22\insrsid10882721 e lesson }{\fs22\insrsid13584126 form to instruct the practical science favored by the }{
\fs22\insrsid7558185 <}{\fs22\insrsid9702281 Lunar Society}{\fs22\insrsid7558185 >}{\fs22\insrsid13584126  of scientists and industrialists presented young readers with a unique and more timely experience of the emerging nineteen}{\fs22\insrsid12933720 t}
{\fs22\insrsid9702281 h-century industrialized world--an original and significant development }{\fs22\insrsid12933720 as compared with the form's}{\fs22\insrsid13584126  employment by Barbauld, Mrs. Trimmer,}{\fs22\insrsid12933720  and Dorothy Kilner }{
\fs22\insrsid13584126 to teach morality and religion (}{\fs22\insrsid10882721 <Maria Edgeworth> }{\fs22\insrsid13584126 165n.).}{\fs22\insrsid9702281  The originality as s
uch of the Edgeworths' contribution is, however, perhaps less relevant to understanding the Ruskins' employment of these works than the family's timely and progressive interest in the early Victorian industrialized world. Evidence of Ruskin's engagement w
ith morality and religion--although certainly present in ??? and ???--pales by comparison.}{\fs22\insrsid16519982  The emphasis}{\fs22\insrsid13584126  }{\fs22\insrsid3150435 
suggests that the boy's reading was governed by parents ambitious "to follow . . .  a programme of education" (168) that the elder Edgeworths had developed in context of theory.}{\cs17\fs22\super\insrsid3150435 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs17\super\insrsid3150435 \chftn }{\insrsid3150435 
 The first version of "Harry and Lucy," a dialogue authored by Honora, was included in }{\i\insrsid3150435 Practical Education}{\insrsid3150435 
 (1780), prefaced by an introduction to educational theory based on associationist psychology (and Rousseau?). Butler treats
 Maria's tales as works of imagination, borne of her practical experience in teaching and entertaining her siblings, rather than as exercises of theory. (Elaborate this using my notes.)}{\insrsid7673641  It's important too that the }{
\b\insrsid7673641\charrsid7673641 book was criticized for omitting reference to religious education}{\insrsid7673641 .}}}{\fs22\insrsid5582226 
\par }{\fs22\insrsid3150435 \tab  
\par }{\fs22\insrsid13774313 
\par \tab Think about Butler's point that the Edgeworths were in the end more influenced by the Scottish emphasis on economic and civic man than by Rousseau's idea of natural man. (see notes)
\par }{\fs22\insrsid7810509 
\par \tab Butler's view of ME as an unconscious realist, one attracted to empirical reality but who was unlikely to formulate realism as a conscious literary objective. Nonetheless, because (or }{\i\fs22\insrsid7810509 if}{\fs22\insrsid7810509 
) JR started with }{\i\fs22\insrsid7810509 Harry and Lucy Concluded}{\fs22\insrsid7810509  instead of the earlier books in the series, the contest between imagination and truth was in his mind.}{\fs22\insrsid7810509\charrsid7810509 
\par }{\fs22\insrsid11079361 \tab Ruskin\rquote s earliest extant juvenilia dates from 1826, about age seven, aside from probably earlier childish scrawls, simple drawings, and practice writing of his name on the flyleav
es of his books. Most of the writing from 1826, when Ruskin was seven, through about 1831 is contained in the \'93Red Books\'94
 (MSS I, III, IIIA, IV, IVA, IVB, IVC), a uniform set of seven store-bought notebooks with reddish-brown, flexible leather covers (described as roan in Sotheby }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 Cat}{\fs22\insrsid11079361 
. 1930), each approximately ten by fifteen centimeters. }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 Red Books}{\fs22\insrsid11079361  was Ruskin\rquote s own term, used both in childhood, when referring to them in letters to his father (e.g., }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 RFL}
{\fs22\insrsid11079361  192), and in later years, when reoccu\-pying his old nursery rooms atop the Herne Hill house and meditating on his childhood for }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 Fors}{\fs22\insrsid11079361  and }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 Praeterita}{
\fs22\insrsid11079361  (}{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 Ruskin\rquote s Camberwell}{\fs22\insrsid11079361 , 13\endash 14). Perhaps it was on one of the latter occasions that he wrote }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 Red Book}{\fs22\insrsid11079361 
 and an assigned number inside some of these.
\par \tab Contemporane\-
ous and in conformity with the Red Books, there also survive three handmade pamphlets (MSS IB, II, and one containing no. 57 now cut apart and its leaves tipped into MS V; MS IB was later professionally bound). Ruskin constructed these from plain paper cu
t to about the size of the Red Books, folded once and sewed. One pamphlet (see no. 57) was covered with pinkish violet paper, perhaps to make its color uniform with the Red Books. Another (MS II) bears the heading \'93Vol I,\'94
 connecting it with what he called his series of \'93works\'94 (}{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 RFL}{\fs22\insrsid11079361 , 187).
\par \tab These early \'93works\'94 might be described as bookmaking as much as writing. From the start in MS I, although Ruskin\rquote s pencil printing is still fairly crude, he thinks to \'93justi\-fy\'94 the margins, enclose his illus\-tra\-tions in
 frames and number them as \'93plates,\'94 and provide title pages and even colophons. In contents, the Red Books imitate a range of genres, from children\rquote s verse and didactic tales to such adult forms as travel narrative and topographi\-
c verse. In this imitative bookmaking, Ruskin was probably not unusual among Victorian and Edwardian children. Less famous childhoods also left behind scientific \'93monographs,\'94 derivative \'93histories,\'94
 and diaries that include illustrated poetry. Some families even privately circulated \'93magazines,\'94 with elaborate nursery pretenses to real-life editorship.}{\fs22\super\insrsid11079361 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid11079361 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid11079361 \chftn }{\insrsid11079361  Olivia Bell and Alan Bell, \'93
Children's Manuscript Magazines in the Bodleian Library,\'94 and A. O. J. Cockshut, \'93Children\rquote s Diaries,\'94 both in }{\i\insrsid11079361 Children and Their Books: A Celebration of the Work of Iona and Peter Opie}{\insrsid11079361 
, ed. Gillian Avery and Julia Briggs (Oxford: Clarendon, 1989), 399\endash 412, and 381\endash 98, esp. 404\endash 6, 388\endash 89, 392\endash 94, 408.}}}{\fs22\insrsid11079361  For example, a handmade magazine, \'93The Beresford Spy,\'94
 was produced by the children of Reverend Edward Andrews, Ruskin\rquote s tutor, to take the place of Andrews\rquote s erstwhile professional magazine, the }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 Spiritual Times}{\fs22\insrsid11079361 
, which had printed the writing of the Andrews brood, as well as Ruskin\rquote s poetry.}{\fs22\super\insrsid11079361 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid11079361 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid11079361 \chftn }{\insrsid11079361  Ian Anstruther, }{\i\insrsid11079361 
Coventry Patmore\rquote s Angel: A Study of Coventry Patmore, His Wife Emily, and}{\insrsid11079361  The Angel in the House (London: Haggerston, 1992), 17\endash 18.}}}{\fs22\insrsid11079361 
 Childhood authorship is encouraged in the stories of Maria Edgeworth, which contains stories within stories ostensibly written by child characters.}{\fs22\super\insrsid11079361 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid11079361 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid11079361 \chftn }{\insrsid11079361  See, e.g., \'93Rivuletta, A Dream\'94
 by a girl of thirteen, and \'93The Injured Ass\'94 by a boy in eleven, both in Edgeworth, }{\i\insrsid11079361 Rosamond}{\insrsid11079361 , part 1, 26\endash 27, 49\endash 56.}}}{\fs22\insrsid11079361  The distinction setting apart Ruskin\rquote 
s Red Books from this common Victorian childhood pastime lay in the ambitious scope he set for himself, and the genius and almost incredible pace and flexibility by which he was able to live up to his ambitions. 
\par \tab Ruskin\rquote s earliest writing bears the stamp of the progressive methods of education advocated by Richard and Maria Edgeworth. Famously, three of Ruskin\rquote 
s Red Books (MSS I, III, IIIA, and partial draft in MS II) were initially used between 1826 and 1829 to contain fair copies of \'93Harry and Lucy,\'94 his adaptations of Maria Edgeworth\rquote s series of tales }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 Early Lessons}{
\fs22\insrsid11079361 , separately titled }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 The Parent\rquote s Assistant}{\fs22\insrsid11079361 , }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 Harry and Lucy}{\fs22\insrsid11079361 , }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 Frank}{\fs22\insrsid11079361 , }{
\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 Rosamond}{\fs22\insrsid11079361 , and }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 Harry and Lucy Concluded}{\fs22\insrsid11079361 .}{\fs22\super\insrsid11079361 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid11079361 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid11079361 \chftn }{\insrsid11079361  The bibliography of the Edgeworths
\rquote  children\rquote s books is notoriously confusing. The following is drawn from Marilyn Butler, }{\i\insrsid11079361 Maria Edgewoth: A Literary Life}{\insrsid11079361  (Oxford: Clarendon, 1972), 63\endash 64, 165\endash 68, and from the }{
\i\insrsid11079361 New Cambridge Bibliography of English Literature}{\insrsid11079361 . }{\i\insrsid11079361 Harry and Lucy}{\insrsid11079361 
, in its earliest version along with its incipient theory of education, was originally devised by Richard Lovell Edgeworth and his wife Honora in 1779\endash 80. T
his remained unpublished, until revised by Richard and his daughter Maria for publication in 1801, along with the other narratives, largely of Maria\rquote s composition. This first published }{\i\insrsid11079361 Early Lessons}{\insrsid11079361 
 consisted of }{\i\insrsid11079361 Harry and Lucy}{\insrsid11079361 , pts. 1\endash 2 (1801); }{\i\insrsid11079361 Rosamond}{\insrsid11079361 , pts. 1\endash 3 (1801); }{\i\insrsid11079361 Frank}{\insrsid11079361 , pts. 1\endash 
4 (1801); and a volume of stories, which completed the series in 1801\endash 2. Some of the stories included in the }{\i\insrsid11079361 Early Lessons}{\insrsid11079361  (not only anthologized in the 1801\endash 
2 volume but incorporated with the other narratives) had been transferred from an earlier publication }{\i\insrsid11079361 The Parent\rquote s Assistant: or, Stories for Children}{\insrsid11079361  (1795 or 1796, 1800). }{\i\insrsid11079361 
Continuation of Early Lessons}{\insrsid11079361  followed in 1814, and, after Richard\rquote s death, Maria carried on alone with }{\i\insrsid11079361 Rosamond: A Sequel to Early Lessons}{\insrsid11079361  (1821); }{\i\insrsid11079361 Fra
nk: A Sequel to Frank in Early Lessons}{\insrsid11079361  (1822); and }{\i\insrsid11079361 Harry and Lucy Concluded: Being the Last Part of Early Lessons}{\insrsid11079361  (1825).}}}{\fs22\insrsid11079361  Activities and experiments drawn from Edgeworth
\rquote s stories and from Jeremiah Joyce\rquote s }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 Scientific Dialogues}{\fs22\insrsid11079361  (1807; see nos. 3, 20) are blended with the Ruskin family\rquote s actual travels and experiences. In his first two volumes of \'93
Harry and Lucy\'94 (MSS I, III [1826\endash 28]), Ruskin probably identified with either or both characters Harry and Lucy, although in the portions set at his aunt\rquote s home in Perth, Scotland, he may have associated \'93Lucy\'94
 with his cousins Jessie and Mary Richardson. In the third volume (MS IIIA, 1828), Ruskin concentrates less on travel adventures and more on the family\rquote s domestic activities at Herne Hill. Having written this
 volume after his cousin Mary Richardson had come to live with the family, Ruskin appears to identify more exclusively with Harry, who takes a decidedly preceptorial role over Lucy, identified with Mary. Less impulsive than in the two first volumes, and e
ven priggishly strict with Lucy, Harry determines the daily round as teaching Lucy the constellations before breakfast, lessons after breakfast, drawing maps until dinner, correcting Virgil \'93for his papa\'94
 and more mapmaking in the afternoon, and listening to papa read }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 Don Quixote}{\fs22\insrsid11079361  until bed (no. 32).
\par \tab Seen whole, the earlier juvenilia reveals how extensively the Ruskins invested in the Edgeworths\rquote  program. Ruskin\rquote s first extant poem and slightly later works (nos. 1, ??) are drawn from }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 Evenings at Home}{
\fs22\insrsid11079361  (1792\endash 96), by Anna Laetitia Barbauld and her brother Dr. John Aiken. Mrs. Barbauld\rquote s hymns and narratives were recommended by Richard Edgeworth as a child\rquote 
s first books, because the pleasurable tales animate children with the desire to learn to read for themselves. Another Edgeworth recommendation, Thomas Day\rquote s }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 Sandford and Merton}{\fs22\insrsid11079361  (1783\endash 
89) is declared Harry\rquote s \'93favourite history\'94 in one of Ruskin\rquote s narratives (no. 20). Day was a close friend and associate of the Edgeworths, although a more theoretical and committed Rousseauist than they believed prudent.
\par \tab In another of Ruskin\rquote s very first poems (no. 5), he imitates Erasmus Darwin, the poet of the Lunar Society. This was the circle of scientists, inventors, and industrialists, who stimulated the Edgeworths\rquote  intellectual life.}{
\fs22\super\insrsid11079361 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid11079361 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid11079361 
\chftn }{\insrsid11079361  See Butler, Maria Edgewoth, 33\endash 35, 58\endash 61; and Robert E. Schofield, The Lunar Society of Birmingham: A Social History of Provincial Science and Industry in Eighteenth-Century England (Oxford: Clarendon, 1963), 204
\endash 10.}}}{\fs22\insrsid11079361  Darwin\rquote s heroic couplets in }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 The Botanic Garden}{\fs22\insrsid11079361  (1789\endash 91) may also lie behind Ruskin\rquote s catalog of plants in his \'93
Eudosia, or a Poem on the Universe\'94 (no. 27), but the title is taken from a production by Capell Lofft (1781), another poet of the scientific enlightenment. Ruskin\rquote 
s introduction to these poets probably came through their frequent quotation in Jeremiah Joyce\rquote s }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 Scientific Dialogues}{\fs22\insrsid11079361 
, a systematic course in mechanics, astronomy, hydrostatics, pneumatics, optics, and electricity. Joyce\rquote s prose is ornamented with extracts from this learned verse, just as Darwin\rquote 
s poem is annotated with extensive scientific notes. Ruskin adopts this elegant manner, after his fashion, in his \'93Harry and Lucy.\'94 After imitating Joyce\rquote s experiments\emdash indeed, often copying them verbatim\emdash 
he caps the prose with poems on natural history and the industrial sublime (MS I).
\par \tab Ruskin also imitates the conversational mode favored by the Edgeworths and by Jeremiah Joyce, who, on his title page, attributes his \'93dialogue\'94 manner to the Edgeworths\rquote  recommendations in }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 Practical Education}{
\fs22\insrsid11079361  (1798\endash 1801). Dialogue promotes the fundamental premise of the Edgeworth system, that appeals should be made to children\rquote s reason, and that they should be encouraged to think for themselves. Ruskin\rquote 
s Harry and Lucy, much like Edgeworth\rquote 
s Frank and the much beleaguered Rosamond, are quizzed by Mamma, who treats ordinary events as opportunities to admonish self-discipline or to practice multiplication tables. Papa, in both Ruskin and Edgeworth, is less prone to these Pumb
lechookian methods, and is reserved for more exciting and brilliant experiments and excursions.
\par \tab If the boy was following approved Enlightenment models, the elder Ruskin was nonetheless correct in }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 Praeterita}{\fs22\insrsid11079361  to detect gestures characteristically his own, w
hen, for example, at the close of his first \'93Harry and Lucy\'94 (no. 3) he combines an electrical experiment from Joyce, not just with elegant scientific verse, but with a haunting image from Lord Byron. In part, the romance in Ruskin\rquote 
s early writing shows merely that he possessed the materials to temper the Edgeworth\rquote s hostility to \'93
inflaming the imagination, or exciting a restless spirit of adventure, by exhibiting false views of life, and creating hopes which, in the ordinary course of things, cannot be realized\'94 (preface to }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 Parent\rquote s Assistant}{
\fs22\insrsid11079361 ). It is better for Rosamond to tour a cotton factory, even though she is too young to understand the machinery, than to dream over imaginary things (Edgeworth, }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 Rosamond}{\fs22\insrsid11079361 
, part 3, 149). That Ruskin was untroubled by the fancy and fact dichotomy does not seem surprising in a family that regularly read Scott and Byron. The more important division indicated by Ruskin\rquote 
s departures from Edgeworthian discipline is a temperamental one between him and his mother.
\par \tab As Michael Brooks has remarked, the Edgeworths\rquote  educational program may have been more congenial temperamentally to Margaret Ruskin than to her son.}{\fs22\super\insrsid11079361 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid11079361 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid11079361 \chftn }{\insrsid11079361  Michael Brooks, \'93
Love and Possession in a Victorian Household: The Example of the Ruskins,\'94 in The Victorian Family: Structure and Stresses, ed. Anthony S. Wohl (New York: St. Martin\rquote s, 1978), 92.}}}{\fs22\insrsid11079361 
 The Edgeworths provided a system, and method must have appealed to a woman, whose nearly first words in Ruskin\rquote s portrayal of her are to \'93do one thing at once\'94 (no. 3).
\par 
\par Although rationalist mentors may have posed fundamental challenges to Margaret Ruskin\rquote s evangelicalism\emdash just as Enlightenment and Rousseauist approaches to education provoked Mrs. Sherwood, Ruskin\rquote s favorite evangelical children
\rquote s writer\emdash the Edgeworths were pragmat
ic enough that Margaret, like Mrs. Sherwood, was able to take what she wanted from their stories, while disputing the Rousseauist premises. What she wanted was system, reflected, as Brooks points out, in Margaret\rquote 
s constant and painstaking commitment to her child\rquote s education and her emphasis on children learning to reflect on his own thought processes. These progressive aims, however, could be detached from Rousseau\rquote 
s fundamental conviction that the natural child should be granted his birthright of freedom. Instead, the Edgeworthian system of children thinking }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 for}{\fs22\insrsid11079361  themselves could be urged toward thinking }{
\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 about}{\fs22\insrsid11079361  themselves\emdash Protestant self-reflection. In that way, the sinful, natural child would be curbed and made obedient to Christian, parental authority.}{\fs22\super\insrsid11079361 \chftn {\footnote 
\pard\plain \s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid11079361 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid11079361 \chftn }{\insrsid11079361  B
rooks, 91. On Ruskin and Mrs. Sherwood, see my \'93Ruskin\rquote s }{\i\insrsid11079361 Praeterita}{\insrsid11079361  and Landscape in Evangelical Children\rquote s Education,\'94 }{\i\insrsid11079361 Nineteenth-Century Literature}{\insrsid11079361 
 44, no. 1 (June 1989): 45\endash 66. There, I argue that Mrs. Sherwood, in Ruskin\rquote s favorite of the novels, }{\i\insrsid11079361 Henry Milner}{\insrsid11079361 
, avoids pressing even the Protestant tradition of self-examination on her young audience, in favor of enforcing the child\rquote s trust and obedience\emdash a recourse that survives partly in the strategies of deferring pain and conflict in }{
\i\insrsid11079361 Praeterita}{\insrsid11079361 , in favor of parental tribute. Now, I would confirm my point about Ruskin\rquote 
s childhood (and adulthood) evasion of emotional distress, which the full spectacle of the early writing proves in even more interesting ways psychologically; however, I would refine that poi
nt to add that Ruskin was very early, and very precociously interested in the processes of his own mind\emdash if, by that, one refers to what Sheila Emerson has called \'93the laws of motion\'94
 that Ruskin believed reflected both in his own mind on paper and in the o
utward nature he beheld. Margaret Ruskin, for her part, was probably more prone than Mrs. Sherwood to enforce on children, alongside obedience, the Protestant duty of self-examination; it was in such terms that she probably understood the progressive Edge
worthian recommendation that children reason their way to conclusions, rather than merely accept them. When she read to the ten-year-old Ruskin and his cousin Mary from Adam Smith, that they may \'93observe something of the working of their own minds,\'94
 her ultimate aim was that they gain \'93more knowledge [of] themselves\'94 (}{\i\insrsid11079361 RFL}{\insrsid11079361  186). }}}{\fs22\insrsid11079361 
\par 
\par \tab What at times appears characteristic of Ruskin\rquote s response to these instructors, whether Edgeworthian or evangelical, are his wily dodges. Joyce\rquote s }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 Dialogues}{\fs22\insrsid11079361  are carefully arranged 
for the methodical acquisition of concepts, but Ruskin, in no. 3, begins in the middle of Joyce\rquote s course, with pneumatics, and then works backwards even within that series of experiments. . . .
\par \tab Ruskin\rquote s obedience or resistence to specific forms of training were probably complex. When Ruskin declares in }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 Fors Clavigera}{\fs22\insrsid11079361  and }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 Praeterita}{\fs22\insrsid11079361 
 that he \'93went on to amuse myself, in my own way, learnt whole words at a time, as I did patterns\'94 (28:274; 35:23), he may be remembering the stress on acquisition of vocabulary in Joyce\rquote s }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 Dialogues}{
\fs22\insrsid11079361  and in }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 Harry and Lucy}{\fs22\insrsid11079361 , both of which contain long glossaries and insist on a systematic accumulation of terms. Ruskin\rquote 
s memory of solitary learning seems to counter the Edgeworthians\rquote  contention that vocabulary, like all subjects, \'93should be made a subject of conversation\'94; however, Edgeworth also respected the child\rquote 
s pleasure as the best arbiter of what and how much should be read, and above all trained the child\rquote s \'93habit of thinking for yourself\'94 (Edgeworth, }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 Frank}{\fs22\insrsid11079361 , 80, 104)....
\par \tab Questions of how Edgeworthian or any other system of education was adopted by the elder Ruskins and how it was received cannot be considered apart from the family\rquote s psychology....
\par 
\par \tab The \'93Harry and Lucy\'94 books bear comparison with that other celebrated body of Victorian juvenilia, the Bront\'eb children\rquote s handmade books, in that both simulate in miniature the appearance of printed works. In content also, Ruskin
\rquote s \'93Harry and Lucy\'94 narratives are comparable to the Bront\'eb \'93sagas,\'94 in that the authors project themselves as semireal, semifictional characters into fictive worlds modeled on their reading. The Bront\'eb children interact as \'93
little queens\'94 and \'93little king\'94 with characters derived from }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 Blackwood\rquote s}{\fs22\insrsid11079361  and other fiction and with current historical heroes such as the Duke of Wellington.}{\fs22\super\insrsid11079361 
\chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid11079361 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid11079361 \chftn }{\insrsid11079361 
 Christine Alexander, }{\i\insrsid11079361 The Early Writings of Charlotte Bront\'eb}{\insrsid11079361  (Buffalo, N.Y.: Prometheus, 1983), 11\endash 26, 46.}}}{\fs22\insrsid11079361  Similarly, Ruskin enters imaginatively into the educational activit
ies of Maria and Richard Edgeworth\rquote s Harry and Lucy.
\par \tab Unlike the Bront\'eb sagas, Ruskin\rquote s juvenilia did not continue to develop a complex, ongoing fictive world. Charlotte Bront\'eb lingered so long in her childhood\rquote s imaginative world that her first efforts at
 mature fiction suffered from embroilment in the earlier sagas.}{\fs22\super\insrsid11079361 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid11079361 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid11079361 \chftn }{\insrsid11079361  Ibid., 203\endash 12.}}}{\fs22\insrsid11079361  Ruskin, on the other hand, began his \'93mature\'94 work in childhood. While the earlier \'93
Harry and Lucy\'94 books show charming (and extraordinarily talented) imitations of children\rquote s stories and verse, within a few years the juvenilia so elaborately copies an adult library that the pieces appear more to be a child\rquote 
s offering in miniature of adult productions beyond his years. In reading the Bront\'eb sagas, one feels oneself trespassing deeper and deeper into an arcane wonderland wrought by the authors for their private adventuring\emdash 
an effect that would be heightened, I assume, by the privilege of poring over Charlotte\rquote s microscopic handwriting and preciously tiny booklets. Ruskin\rquote s hand 
and booklets, too, are small enough to make reading uncomfortable at times, but they do not begin to approach Charlotte\rquote s feats. In reading the early Ruskin, rather, one is invited to survey a public spectacle\emdash from his paired epics \'93
Iteriad\'94 and \'93Athens\'94 to his \'93Poem on the Universe\'94 called \'93Eudosia\'94\emdash and to admire the mere child who is showing off to his parents \'93how well he could do it\'94 (}{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 Works}{\fs22\insrsid11079361 
, 35:72). At the same time, the more one studies the early Ruskin especially of the rough-draft notebooks (MSS VI, 
VIII), the more one is struck by how, behind the public performances and spilling into them, Ruskin reveals secrets, fantasies, and emotional turmoil. Ruskin encoded these secrets in various ways, perhaps concealing turmoil even from himself, but the emot
ions nonetheless continue to trouble his characteristically ebullient voice.
\par \tab The \'93Harry and Lucy\'94 books are filled out with short poems. In MS I, the verses are based partly on what he found in children\rquote s books, although some of these poems, such as the previously unpublished \'93On Papa\rquote s Leaving Home\'94
 (no. 8), already display a highly inventive and interesting emotional response to his father\rquote s departures on business trips; other poems, such as \'93On Scotland\'94 (no. 6) may already show Ruskin responding to fami
ly deaths. Loss, whether by death or absence, is a prominent theme in the suppressed fragments; both \'93The Monastery\'94 (no. 46) and \'93Athens\'94 (no. 135) break off with the despondent farewells or the absences of older males.
\par \tab By 1827, in MS III, Ruskin is imitating adult polite verse in a section named \'93poetry discriptive\'94 (}{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 sic}{\fs22\insrsid11079361 
), although, again, these poems already reveal an individualistic acuity in perception of visual relationships, as Emerson has remarked. Another verse grouping, also in MS III but dating from 1829, includes the versifi\-cation of the opening of Scott
\rquote s }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 The Monastery}{\fs22\insrsid11079361 , Ruskin\rquote s project for \'93a novel\'94 (}{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 RFL}{\fs22\insrsid11079361 , 185). Also from 1829, the handmade booklet \'93
Battle of Waterloo . . . with Other Small Poems\'94 imitates the verse drama publications of the period. At about the same time, beginning in 1828, Ruskin exhibits a fine Augustan confidence in surveying the creation by devoting a Red Book (MS IV) to \'93
Eudosia; or, a Poem on the Universe.\'94
\par \tab Of the remainder of the earlier juvenilia, one Red Book was used in 1827 for Ruskin\rquote s first Latin exercises, prior to Andrews\rquote 
s instruction (MS IVA). Another Red Book (MS IVB) was begun as a personalized guidebook and itinerary for the family\rquote s English tour of 1828. Additionally, besides all these notebook productions, Ruskin celebrated his father\rquote s birth\-
days, New Year\rquote s, and sometimes his own birthday, by presenting John James with fancy copies of odes composed to commemorate the occasions, along with other kinds of poems. For these he used the most elaborate print o
r script that he could muster at the time\emdash either his most careful early print in imitation of typeface or a \'93double\'94 print that, as a \'93Harry and Lucy\'94
 episode records, cost him so much time that he rarely again attempted it. Later, he employed a more rapid \'93copperplate\'94 hand, sometimes decorated with flourishes drawn an arithmetic and orthography primer (see }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 RFL}{
\fs22\insrsid11079361 , 259, 261 n. 17). The presentation poems were copied on sheets folded vertically as a folio; then the folios were sometimes folded twice horizontally, like a letter, and a superscrip\-tion added to the outside\emdash typically, \'93
To My Father\'94 and a date. Many of these were bound later by Wedderburn in MSS IA and XI along with other miscellaneous poems and letters.
\par \tab \'93Eudosia\'94 eventually faltered in 1830, with only one volume on \'93Botany\'94 (containing book 1 and part of book 2) carried from flowers through a catalog of trees. From here, Ruskin went on undaunted to \'93Iteriad\'94
 (MS VII), a four-book verse account of the family tour to the Lakes in 1830, on which he worked until 1832. When, in 1831, he had finished drafting (but not fair-copying) \'93Iteriad,\'94 he began \'93Athens,\'94 a verse narrative of Xerxes\rquote 
 great march climaxing the Persian Wars. Since Ruskin was translating the }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 Iliad}{\fs22\insrsid11079361  at the time, he no doubt was inspired to attempt the ultimate epic achievement: to pair an epic on travel adventure\emdash 
his own }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 Odyssey}{\fs22\insrsid11079361  in \'93Iteriad,\'94 as it were\emdash with an epic on battle, his }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 Iliad}{\fs22\insrsid11079361  in \'93Athens.\'94 Unlike \'93Iteriad,\'94 however, \'93Athens\'94
 was never fin\-ished, in its draft or its fair copy. Meanwhile, between 1829 and 1832, Ruskin was using a smaller notebook (MS V, not a Red Book) entitled \'93Miscellaneous Poetry\'94 to gather together fair copies of the shorter poems\emdash 
a sort of collected minor poems.
\par \tab A change is noticeable from about 1831, age twelve, when Ruskin was engaged in fair-copying \'93Iteriad\'94 and in drafting \'93Athens,\'94
 and when his home studies were extended to include modern languages, mathematics, more advanced Latin and Greek, and drawing tutelage.}{\fs22\super\insrsid11079361 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain 
\s16\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid11079361 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid11079361 \chftn }{\insrsid11079361  See Tim Hilton, }{\i\insrsid11079361 
John Ruskin: The Early Years, 1819\endash 1859}{\insrsid11079361  (New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 1985), 22\endash 24.}}}{\fs22\insrsid11079361 
 Now the Red Books were set aside for grander notebooks in half-calf or half-roan and marbled boards. As he would boast in early 1833, he required \'93additional space\'94 for \'93greater freedom & play of cogitation\'94 (}{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 RFL}{
\fs22\insrsid11079361 , 274). In MS VII, he fair-copied his \'93Iteriad\'94 between 1831 and 1832 and started fair-copying \'93Athens.\'94 During the same period, 1831\endash 32, he kept his first separate sketchbooks, earlier
 drawings appearing mainly as \'93plates\'94 in the Red Books. The two sketchbooks exhibit picturesque sketches taken during tours of the southeast of England. Later, in 1833\endash 34, the remark\-
able Account of a Tour on the Continent (MS IX) imitates with astonishing fidelity the engraved plates and letter\-press of Samuel Rogers\rquote s }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 Italy}{\fs22\insrsid11079361  and of the profession\-
al gift annuals to which Ruskin would soon be contrib\-uting verse.
\par \tab Besides the epics and poetic travelogues of this period, Ruskin\rquote s lessons are worked up as his own \'93published\'94 textbooks. In place of the 1827 Latin vocabulary lists in a Red Book, his 1832 translation of the first few books of the }{
\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 Iliad}{\fs22\insrsid11079361  is presented in an elegant double-column pamphlet. A \'93Practical Geometry\'94 belonging to \'93Mast}{\fs22\super\insrsid11079361 r}{\fs22\insrsid11079361  Ruskin Jan}{\fs22\super\insrsid11079361 y}{
\fs22\insrsid11079361  21}{\fs22\super\insrsid11079361 st}{\fs22\insrsid11079361  1833\'94\emdash so inscribed probably when it was started (MS XIA) and elaborately handlettered in Gothic and copperplate scripts\emdash 
devotes each page to an elegant statement of a \'93problem\'94 and its solution in a neatly ruled geometric figure.
\par \tab Whether owing to the accident of preservation or to Ruskin\rquote 
s now regarding himself as a more workmanlike poet, there survive from this time two notebooks that serve for rough-drafting poetry before it was copied elsewhere (MSS VI, VIII). MS VIII, kept in continuous use between 183
1 and 1836 or 1837, is the primary source for poetry, stories, and drama related to Ruskin\rquote s tormented and unrequited first love affair, Ad\'e8le Domecq. Also starting about this time, the earlier Red Books are recycled as work\-
books (perhaps at the behest of John James, who was economical with paper).}{\fs22\super\insrsid11079361 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s16\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid11079361 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid11079361 \chftn }{\insrsid11079361  See }{\i\insrsid11079361 TLC}{\insrsid11079361 
, 19. Some of the features of the juvenilia manuscripts, such as the slightest indications of paragraph breaks and the haphazard word divisions in the Sermon Books, may be partly explained by John James\rquote s frugality with paper.}}}{
\fs22\insrsid11079361  Turned upside down and started anew from the end opposite to the earlier \'93Harry and Lucy\'94
 narratives, their remaining blank leaves and endboards exploited, or their newer entries even crossing the earlier material, the Red Books were now made to serve diverse interests\emdash 
articles on mineralogy, algebra and geometry exercises, and sketches that turn up in finished form as \'93plates\'94 in MS IX. The mineralogy notes and catalogs, which begin about 1830\endash 31 with a Red Book devoted to the sub
ject (MS IVC), evolve into the ambitious Mineralogical Dictionary (MS IVD [1831\endash 36]), Ruskin\rquote s own redaction of primers on geological identification and classification, such as Jameson\rquote s }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 System of Mineralogy}
{\fs22\insrsid11079361  or the geological articles in Loudon\rquote s }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 Magazine of Natural History}{\fs22\insrsid11079361 , to which Ruskin himself would contribute brief scientific papers in 1834.
\par \tab By their appearance, the Sermon Books (MSS IIA\endash E) seem positioned between the earlier juvenile Red Books and the later aspirations of the young scholar. By their date also, the sermons\rquote  composition belong to a transitional period, 1832
\endash 34. In some physical respects, the Sermon Books are similar to the earlier pamphlets constructed to conform with the Red Books. Handmade and miniature, the pamphlets measure only 9.
5 by 15.5 centimeters, with a text space of only 7.5 by 15 centimeters, into which Ruskin packed roughly fifty lines and even seventy-five on some pages. By this time, however, the Red Books themselves were in their recycled stage of use, and in fact some
 of the Red Books were reused to draft the sermons. Moreover, the Sermon Books, despite their pre\-cious dimensions, appear more sober than the \'93Harry and Lucy\'94
 books, linking them to the formal textbook presentations of contemporaneous and later prose\emdash the }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 Iliad}{\fs22\insrsid11079361 
 translation, the Mineralogical Dictionary, and, later, the first critical essays (MSS XB, no. 270; MS XIB). The ink script is studiously neat longhand, rather than the printing meant to imitate typeface that had been used for poetry before the \'93Iteria
d.\'94 Title headings follow a consis\-tent pattern and, appropriate to the solemn contents, show minimal ornamentation. The margins are \'93justified\'94 so rigor\-
ously that, rather than spoil the effect, words are divided according to how much fits on the line rather than by syllable; hyphens are omitted if space disallows; curlicues, commas, and dots are }{\i\fs22\insrsid11079361 added}{\fs22\insrsid11079361 
 to bring a short line to the margin (easily misread as punctuation by the unwary); and paragraphs are indicated with only the barest indentation or with only a slight line space.
\par \tab In content as well, the Sermon Books are especially interesting as reflecting both a self-conscious childishness and a rapidly maturing thought and learning. Although the persona most frequently impersonates an elder, learned divine
 expositing scripture to his congregation, the writer also speaks as a pious child when the occasion demands, such as when commenting on the Fifth Commandment. The boy\rquote 
s perspective on the doctrine of his church is invaluable, especially as a source for understanding the foundations of Ruskin\rquote s mature religious thought.}{\fs22\insrsid11079361\charrsid11079361 
\par }}