{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\fswiss \fcharset0 \fprq2 Arial Unicode MS;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
{\s1 \qj _26;}
{\s2 \qj\fi-720\li1440\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 _25;}
{\s3 \qj\li2160\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 _24;}
{\s4 \qj\li2880\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 _23;}
{\s5 \qj\li3600\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 _22;}
{\s6 \qj\li4320\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 _21;}
{\s7 \qj\li5040\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 _20;}
{\s8 \qj\li5760\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 _19;}
{\s9 \qj\li6480\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 _18;}
{\s10 \qj\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 _17;}
{\s11 \qj\fi-720\li1440\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 _16;}
{\s12 \qj\li2160\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 _15;}
{\s13 \qj\li2880\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 _14;}
{\s14 \qj\li3600\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 _13;}
{\s15 \qj\li4320\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 _12;}
{\s16 \qj\li5040\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 _11;}
{\s17 \qj\li5760\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 _10;}
{\s18 \qj\li6480\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 _9;}
{\s19 \qj\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 _8;}
{\s20 \qj\fi-720\li1440\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 _7;}
{\s21 \qj\li2160\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 _6;}
{\s22 \qj\li2880\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 _5;}
{\s23 \qj\li3600\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 _4;}
{\s24 \qj\li4320\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 _3;}
{\s25 \qj\li5040\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 _2;}
{\s26 \qj\li5760\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 _1;}
{\s27 \qj\li6480\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 _;}
{\*\cs28 \additive Default Para;}
}\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstpg\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs22
Hand\par
\tab MS I is written entirely in large penciled print, more childish than that in any other Red \softline
Book; nonetheless, Ruskin was already carefully imitating published books by justifying the \softline
margins; devising a title page, frontispiece, and colophon; labeling his drawings as {\u8220\'93}plates{\u8221\'94}; \softline
and filling out the volume with the MS I Poetry Anthology, which he entitled {\u8220\'93}Poetry.{\u8221\'94}\par
Composition and Sources\par
\tab MS I shows more uniform control over the entirety of its contents than tended to be the \softline
case in later Red Books, which grew more miscellaneous with successive uses at different \softline
times. For example, the title page appears more nearly to serve for the entire Red Book than \softline
is the case in MS III and MS IIIA, which likewise begin with volumes of {\u8220\'93}Harry and Lucy,{\u8221\'94} but \softline
which also contain much else that is altogether unrelated to the Edgeworthian narrative. By \softline
comparison, the MS I Poetry Anthology, which fills out MS I, is not an entirely haphazard \softline
miscellany. The first of these poems, {\u8220\'93}When furious up from mines the water pours{\u8221\'94} [{\u8220\'93}The \softline
Steam Engine{\u8221\'94}], condenses a portion of {\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The Botanic Garden}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  by Erasmus Darwin, thus \softline
sustaining the Enlightenment, entrepreneurial spirit of the immediately preceding {\u8220\'93}Harry and \softline
Lucy,{\u8221\'94} Vol. 1, which imitates works by Maria Edgeworth and Jeremiah Joyce.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab As a visual artifact, MS I imitates the appearance of books Ruskin would have known: \softline
the title page is modeled directly on Maria Edgeworth, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Harry and Lucy Concluded}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ; and the \softline
{\u8220\'93}plates{\u8221\'94} imitated any number of books in the Ruskin family library (Edgeworth{\u8217\'92}s volumes were \softline
not illustrated). Most of Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s {\u8220\'93}plates{\u8221\'94} bear no apparent relation with the text, but the \softline
frontispiece, {\u8220\'93}Frontispiece{\u8221\'94} [Plate] {\u8220\'93}1{\u8221\'94} [{\u8220\'93}Harry and Lucy{\u8221\'94} Vol 1], which features {\u8220\'93}a rainbow,{\u8221\'94} \softline
may be complemented by the last of the poems in the anthology, {\u8220\'93}On the Rainbow: In Blank \softline
Verse.{\u8221\'94} The rainbow drawing, moreover, could refer to Harry{\u8217\'92}s vision of the Witch of the Alps \softline
at the end of {\u8220\'93}Harry and Lucy,{\u8221\'94} Vol. 1. (Ruskin could have added the rainbow to the \softline
frontispiece as an afterthought: we cannot know for certain whether the textual rainbow \softline
suggested the graphic one, or vice versa, or whether the two are definitely related at all. But it \softline
seems likely that he arranged the contents in order to frame the book with the theme of the \softline
rainbow as both promise and closure.)\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab Another sign of control over the entirety of the contents appears at the end of the Red \softline
Book, on p. 106, where Ruskin placed a colophon: {\u8220\'93}The end / hernhill / fountain street / end of \softline
the poems[strikethrough] / juvenile library fountain street.{\u8221\'94} The colophon is followed by \softline
{\u8220\'93}Heights of Wisdom, Depth of Fools{\u8221\'94} [Miscellaneous Drawing, MS I], in which the concave \softline
shape of the narrow valley appears to answer to the convex form of the rainbow in the \softline
frontispiece. The colophon could be based on Maria Edgeworth, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Harry and Lucy Concluded}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , \softline
which concludes in the fourth volume with {\u8220\'93}}{\plain \fs22 \scaps\fs22 THE END.}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 {\u8221\'94} and, below that, {\u8220\'93}}{\plain \fs22 \scaps\fs22 LONDON:}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  / }{\plain \fs22 \scaps\fs22 PRINTED \softline
BY CHARLES WOOD,}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  / Poppin{\u8217\'92}s Court, Fleet Street.{\u8221\'94}\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab The colophon evidently unifies {\u8220\'93}Harry and Lucy,{\u8221\'94} Vol. 1, and the MS I Poetry \softline
Anthology, but the deletion within the colophon (end of the poems[strikethrough]) may point to \softline
how attempts at symmetry and closure were ongoing decisions. Since the final two poems of \softline
the MS I Poetry Anthology fall after Margaret{\u8217\'92}s annotation dating the whole of MS I, Ruskin \softline
could have added them after he had already written {\u8220\'93}end of the poems{\u8221\'94} on p. 106, deleting the \softline
phrase as he added the poems on pp. 103{\u8211\'96}6. Or the phrase may have formed an original \softline
colophon, deleted as he elaborated the revised colophon (reading, in effect, {\u8220\'93}The end / hernhill 
/ fountain street / juvenile library fountain street{\u8221\'94}). Or he may have originally included the \softline
phrase as part of the colophon but deleted it as erroneous or misleading, since the colophon \softline
ends the entire book, not just the poems. (It is also possible, of course, that the deletion was \softline
made by someone else.)\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 Domestic Scene\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab MS I is the only Red Book to locate its imaginary publisher, the {\u8220\'93}juvenile library,{\u8221\'94} in \softline
{\u8220\'93}hernhill / fountain street,{\u8221\'94} other Red Books mentioning simply Herne Hill. Could Ruskin be \softline
referring to what }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Praeterita}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  records as an early memory, the water carts being filled in front of \softline
the house (Ruskin, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Works}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , 35:21)? In }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Praeterita,}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  Ruskin leaves unclear whether he observed \softline
the carts from the windows of Herne Hill or of the Hunter Street house{\u8212\'97}where the family lived \softline
prior to Herne Hill, until March 1823 (see Dearden, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s Camberwell}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , 1). By the time \softline
Ruskin first wrote about this memory in 1871 (in }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Fors Clavigera}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  [Ruskin, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Works}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , 27:169]), he \softline
might well have confused memories of the two locations; or the colophon itself might have \softline
suggested such a memory to him, when he doubtless reviewed his juvenilia for those later \softline
autobiographical writings. Unfortunately, attempts have been unsuccessful to gain information \softline
about either a Fountain Street or water mains in the vicinities of the two houses.}}