{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\froman \fcharset0 \fprq2 Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
}\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstpg\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs24
\tab As Collingwood remarks, MS VI is a rough-copy book for  Iteriad  and for shorter poems, \softline
many of them copied into MS V. Unlike MS V, in which poems were fair-copied in an order \softline
regardless of their dates of composition, MS VI reveals a compositional sequence of poems--some lost \softline
with the removal of folios. The sequence starts with  Vesuvius,  which is the earliest item listed in \softline
Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s index. Since  Vesuvius  can be independently dated as February 1830, and some other titles \softline
in the index can also be dated from other sources, conjectural dates can be assigned to pieces based on \softline
their relative positions in the manuscript.\par
\tab Dates can be provisionally given even to titles of lost pieces, since their former positions are \softline
recorded in the index. Of course, we cannot be certain that Ruskin drafted the lost poems seriatim in \softline
the notebook, any more than we can assume that the extant poems form an undeviating sequence--and, \softline
as explained in  Description  above and in no. 91, Ruskin did at times skip backwards and fill unused \softline
spaces. In broad outline, however, the titles of lost poems indicate interests that absorbed Ruskin from \softline
early 1830 to late February or early March 1831, the period covered in the lost portion of MS VI.\par
\tab Throughout the notebook, shorter poems were interspersed with draft of  Iteriad,  no. 91. The \softline
index tells us that  Iteriad  itself started life as a shorter poem,  The Ascent of Skiddaw,  which would \softline
later become book 3 (see no. 91). The index cites p. 32 both for  Skiddaw  and for the first of a series \softline
of pages for  Iteriad.   Skiddaw  was drafted, judging by its indexed position, starting in late December \softline
1830 or early January 1831, just following the lost piece  Revolution.  In MS VII Ruskin says he \softline
started  Iteriad  on November 28, 1830, either referring to MS VI and offsetting these calculations by \softline
just a month or referring to draft in another manuscript, now lost.}