{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\f37\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f44\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 \styrsid7631497 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive 
\ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \ssemihidden \styrsid7631497 footnote text;}{\*\cs16 \additive \super \sbasedon10 \ssemihidden \styrsid7631497 footnote reference;}}{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0}
{\*\rsidtbl \rsid681837\rsid6109100\rsid7631497}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 11.0.5604;}{\info{\title <provenance> <herne_hill>}{\author  }{\operator  }{\creatim\yr2005\mo9\dy5\hr7\min55}{\revtim\yr2005\mo9\dy5\hr7\min55}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages4}
{\nofwords938}{\nofchars5351}{\*\company Southeastern Louisiana University}{\nofcharsws6277}{\vern24689}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800
\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct
\asianbrkrule\rsidroot7631497\newtblstyruls\nogrowautofit \fet0{\*\ftnsep \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid681837 \chftnsep 
\par }}{\*\ftnsepc \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid681837 \chftnsepc 
\par }}{\*\aftnsep \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid681837 \chftnsep 
\par }}{\*\aftnsepc \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid681837 \chftnsepc 
\par }}\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\sl480\slmult1
\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid7631497 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22\insrsid7631497\charrsid16743073 <provenance>}{\fs22\insrsid7631497  <herne_hill>}{
\fs22\insrsid7631497\charrsid16743073 
\par <head2>Provenance during Herne Hill Years (18??-1842)
\par }{\fs22\insrsid7631497 \tab Given the parameters of the}{\fs22\insrsid7631497\charrsid16743073  }{\fs22\insrsid7631497 <}{\fs22\insrsid7631497\charrsid16743073 corpus}{\fs22\insrsid7631497 >corpus}{\fs22\insrsid7631497\charrsid16743073 
 of early manuscripts }{\fs22\insrsid7631497 as}{\fs22\insrsid7631497\charrsid16743073  1826 to 1842}{\fs22\insrsid7631497 ,}{\fs22\insrsid7631497\charrsid16743073  the}{\fs22\insrsid7631497  period of}{\fs22\insrsid7631497\charrsid16743073  <}{
\fs22\insrsid7631497 herne_hill>Herne Hill}{\fs22\insrsid7631497\charrsid16743073  years}{\fs22\insrsid7631497  would appear to be rule out discussion of provenance, strictly understood as postproduction history, since the Ruskins departed Herne Hill for}
{\fs22\insrsid7631497\charrsid16743073  their new house, <}{\fs22\insrsid7631497 denmark_hill>Denmark Hill, in 1842, at the end of the period bounding the corpus}{\fs22\insrsid7631497\charrsid16743073 . }{\fs22\insrsid7631497 
However, within even this earliest period and location of the ma
jor manuscripts there arise questions of ownership and preservation: (1) First, did the Ruskin family possess the presently surviving corpus exclusively, or could some manuscripts have once been owned by others}{\fs22\insrsid7631497\charrsid16743073 ?}{
\fs22\insrsid7631497  Also, even if what survives was probably owned by the Ruskins, do individual texts or manuscripts at least point to copies or versions held by others but now lost?}{\fs22\insrsid7631497\charrsid16743073  }{\fs22\insrsid7631497 (2) }{
\fs22\insrsid7631497\charrsid16743073 What do we know about care for the m}{\fs22\insrsid7631497 anuscripts at Herne Hill--about where they were kept, and who kept them?
\par 
\par \tab These questions bear on a larger question of the relation between the composition of juvenilia and the house in which it was composed (see "--------"). For Ruskin, those associations remained vital as late as the 1870s/1880s???,}{
\cs16\fs22\super\insrsid7631497 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7631497 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs16\super\insrsid7631497 \chftn }{
\insrsid7631497  Fix date.}}}{\fs22\insrsid7631497  when he returned to his old nursery in the now vacated????}{\cs16\fs22\super\insrsid7631497 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7631497 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs16\super\insrsid7631497 \chftn }{\insrsid7631497  Who owned it? How used? Rented?}}}{
\fs22\insrsid7631497  Herne Hill in order to compose the opening chapters of <praeterita>}{\i\fs22\insrsid7631497 Praeterita}{\fs22\insrsid7631497 
. Ruminating in the autobiography on the role of writing in his childhood, Ruskin transmitted (and altered) text from one of his <"Harry and Lucy"> books. Clearly, as he wrote, he had at hand the <red_book>Red Books, which contain those texts.}{
\cs16\fs22\super\insrsid7631497 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7631497 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs16\super\insrsid7631497 \chftn }{
\insrsid7631497  How do I know this?}}}{\fs22\insrsid7631497\charrsid16743073 
\par 
\par }{\fs22\insrsid7631497 <head3>}{\fs22\insrsid7631497\charrsid16743073 Possession of Early Manuscripts outside the Family
\par }{\fs22\insrsid7631497 \tab Of the corpus of early manuscripts, the only items that definitely belonged to anyone outside the family are the}{\fs22\insrsid7631497\charrsid16743073  }{\fs22\insrsid7631497 letters to Thomas Dale}{
\fs22\insrsid7631497\charrsid16743073  }{\fs22\insrsid7631497 and the <essay on literature> published by George Allen as ..., and the letters to Edward Clayton and <essay on ...> published by Allen as }{\i\fs22\insrsid7631497 Letters to a College Friend}{
\fs22\insrsid7631497 .}{\cs16\fs22\super\insrsid7631497 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7631497 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\cs16\super\insrsid7631497 \chftn }{\insrsid7631497  Is this in fact all?}}}{\fs22\insrsid7631497  In both cases, the manuscripts were offered to George Allen for publication by members of those respective families (see ...).
\par 
\par \tab Otherwise, while the corpus includes a number of texts that tantalizingly suggest that versions were likely made for others,}{\fs22\insrsid7631497\charrsid2127123  }{\fs22\insrsid7631497 
no manuscript other than the Dale and Clayton materials already mentio
ned bears any direct indication of having belonged to anyone outside the family in these earlier years. In cases of texts addressed to others, the status of the manuscript is often unclear: that is, whether the manuscript should be interpreted as "origina
l" or "copy," or as neither in the sense that the communication is imaginative (such as a love poem) and was perhaps never meant to be physically sent to its implied addressee.}{\fs22\insrsid7631497\charrsid12985287  }{\fs22\insrsid7631497 
This is not to argue the unlikelihood of Ruskin having ever presented work to an
yone apart from his parents. Clearly, he did write for others besides himself and his parents (although he did so more commonly after age ???), and some texts contain strong presumptive evidence that the surviving manuscript is a copy or draft of an origi
nal sent to another, now lost.}{\cs16\fs22\super\insrsid7631497 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7631497 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\cs16\super\insrsid7631497 \chftn }{\insrsid7631497  Is there a watershed date? Adele poems?}}}{\fs22\insrsid7631497 
 The <letter to Mrs. Monro> (182?) in <MS II> is evidently a copy of an epistle sent to that friend of the family since it refers to making notes of a sermon "in a book at home" and that reference is apparently to MS II itself
--the remark therefore making no sense unless Mrs. Monro received the original letter.
\par 
\par <exhibition>
\par \tab Most of the early manuscripts, up to age ???, appear to have been written for and treasured by the immediate family, but they could also be loaned. In a letter, Margaret asks her husband to}{\fs22\insrsid7631497\charrsid16743073 
 <exhibiting Ruskin's juvenile poems> to personal friends such as the <Grays>}{\fs22\insrsid7631497 ....
\par 
\par \tab After 183?,}{\cs16\fs22\super\insrsid7631497 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7631497 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\cs16\super\insrsid7631497 \chftn }{\insrsid7631497  Is there a specific watershed?}}}{\fs22\insrsid7631497  when Ruskin wrote to and for others more frequently, presumably he sent such}{\fs22\insrsid7631497\charrsid16743073  }{\fs22\insrsid7631497 
work as his}{\fs22\insrsid7631497\charrsid16743073  }{\fs22\insrsid7631497 r}{\fs22\insrsid7631497\charrsid16743073 hym}{\fs22\insrsid7631497 ed l}{\fs22\insrsid7631497\charrsid16743073 etter}{\fs22\insrsid7631497 s to his friends <}{
\fs22\insrsid7631497\charrsid16743073 Willoughby>}{\fs22\insrsid7631497  and <Richard Fall> to their recipients. In those cases, he fortunately retained copies for himself (assuming the manuscripts }{\i\fs22\insrsid7631497 are}{\fs22\insrsid7631497 
 his copies and not Willoughby's and Fall's that somehow came back to him); other poems and letters written for others must have been lost without a trace. The early work perhaps most famously produced for another--}{\i\fs22\insrsid7631497 
The King of the Golden River,}{\fs22\insrsid7631497  allegedly produced for the youthful Effie Gray--is particularly frustrating in the provenance history of its manuscripts.}{\fs22\insrsid7631497\charrsid665382 
\par }{\fs22\insrsid7631497 
\par \tab Other t
exts present inherently ambiguous cases for provenance of surviving or conjectural manuscripts. Was <Edward Andrews>--the family preacher and, after 182?, Ruskin's tutor--presented with some version of <notes> on his own sermons? Were devout poems concern
i
ng churchgoing made for Andrews, or Ruskin's mother, or both or neither? The audience for some texts changed over time, so that manuscripts appear to be in transit, as it were. The poem <On Skiddaw and Derwent Water> was originally intended by Ruskin as a
 
gift to his father, and its first fair copy (in MS ?) would have been retained within the family; however, an extant draft in MS II reveals the process of revision that ultimately divided the poem into two, forming Ruskin's first publications. Fair copies
 must therefore have existed belongeing to the publisher, Reverend Andrews (for his journal, }{\i\fs22\insrsid7631497 Spiritual Times}{\fs22\insrsid7631497 ).
\par 
\par \tab Possession within the family is even more obscure: Were Ruskin's rough-draft notebooks, MSS VI and VIII, entirely private to him? Who owned the 
1830 manuscript diary of the family's travels in the Lake District, which was jointly authored by Ruskin and his cousin, Mary Richardson, but with Ruskin responsible for the lion's share? Were copies in the hand of Ruskin's mother, Margaret, made for hers
elf? Boundaries of possession within families are often neither fixed nor stable, pointing to the rich complexity of <audience> entailed especially in juvenile writing.
\par }{\fs22\insrsid7631497\charrsid16743073 
\par <head3>Care for the Early Manuscripts at Herne Hill
\par }{\fs22\insrsid7631497 \tab }{\fs22\insrsid7631497\charrsid16743073 Throughout the years at <Herne Hil
l> and <Denmark Hill>, I know of no indication as to where the early manuscripts were kept or who kept them--say, whether they were in Ruskin's parents' keeping or his own. Their first association with a specific room in a house is Ruskin's keeping some o
f them by him when sitting in his old nursery at <Herne Hill> in order to write the childhood chapters of <Praeter}{\fs22\insrsid7631497 ita>. <! How do I know that? !>}{\fs22\insrsid7631497\charrsid7631497 
\par }}