{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\fswiss \fcharset0 \fprq2 Arial Unicode MS;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
{\s1 \qj _26;}
{\s2 \qj\fi-720\li1440\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _25;}
{\s3 \qj\li2160\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _24;}
{\s4 \qj\li2880\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _23;}
{\s5 \qj\li3600\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _22;}
{\s6 \qj\li4320\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _21;}
{\s7 \qj\li5040\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _20;}
{\s8 \qj\li5760\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _19;}
{\s9 \qj\li6480\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _18;}
{\s10 \qj\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _17;}
{\s11 \qj\fi-720\li1440\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _16;}
{\s12 \qj\li2160\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _15;}
{\s13 \qj\li2880\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _14;}
{\s14 \qj\li3600\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _13;}
{\s15 \qj\li4320\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _12;}
{\s16 \qj\li5040\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _11;}
{\s17 \qj\li5760\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _10;}
{\s18 \qj\li6480\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _9;}
{\s19 \qj\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _8;}
{\s20 \qj\fi-720\li1440\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _7;}
{\s21 \qj\li2160\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _6;}
{\s22 \qj\li2880\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _5;}
{\s23 \qj\li3600\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _4;}
{\s24 \qj\li4320\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _3;}
{\s25 \qj\li5040\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _2;}
{\s26 \qj\li5760\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _1;}
{\s27 \qj\li6480\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _;}
{\*\cs28 \additive Default Para;}
{\s29 \qj\tx0\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 header;}
{\*\cs30 \additive page number;}
{\s31 \qj\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 \fs20 footnote tex;}
{\*\cs32 \additive\super footnote ref;}
}\ftnrstcont\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\widowctrl\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstcont\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs22
\tab A 12 {\u215\'d7} 18.5 cm, pre-ruled notebook, covered with greenish marbled boards, half-bound \softline
in chocolate calf, and gilt (the same binding as that described by W. G. Collingwood [{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Poems}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  \softline
(4}{\plain \fs22 \super\fs22 o}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , 1891), 1:263; }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Poems}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  (8}{\plain \fs22 \super\fs22 o}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , 1891), 1:264]). The leaves measure 11 {\u215\'d7} 17.7 cm.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 Collation\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab Following and not including the marbled front endpaper: three blank leaves + 167 pp. \softline
as numbered by Ruskin (with p. 1 starting on a recto, and with p. 37 given twice) + 3 blank \softline
leaves + back marbled endpaper.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab The three leaves at the beginning and end of the notebook are unruled and, unlike the \softline
ruled leaves that make up the main part of the notebook, bear the watermark {\u8220\'93}Smith & A[(?)] / \softline
18[(?)].{\u8221\'94} This difference in papers might suggest a rebinding of MS V, but the worn marbled \softline
boards appear original, as do the leather corners. Also, the edges of the paper were marbled \softline
in a color that may once have matched the boards. It seems likely, therefore, that MS V has \softline
come down to us in the same binding in which Ruskin first used it.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 Battle of Waterloo: A Play in Two Acts, with Other Small Poems\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab A handmade pamphlet with this title, its pages disassembled, is tipped in at the back of \softline
MS V. Originally, the pamphlet formed no part of MS V, and it must not have been inserted \softline
when Collingwood described MS V, as he does not mention it. (See {\u8220\'93}Battle of Waterloo: A \softline
Play in Two Acts{\u8221\'94} for the likelihood that Collingwood was unaware of this pamphlet at all when \softline
compiling }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Poems}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  [1891].)\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab The pamphlet was probably inserted by Alexander Wedderburn, and no later than \softline
1903, since Collingwood{\u8217\'92}s {\u8220\'93}Notes on the Original MSS. of Poems,{\u8221\'94} as elaborated in the Library \softline
Edition, adds to the description of MS V: {\u8220\'93}In this book . . . are now inserted the leaves of a thin \softline
paper book{\u8221\'94} containing {\u8220\'93}Battle of Waterloo: A Play in Two Acts{\u8221\'94} and other works (Ruskin, \softline
}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Works}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , 2:531). The addition is mentioned also on a leaf tipped in between the marbled front \softline
endpapers of MS V; like similar leaves in some of the Red Books, these hold a clipping from \softline
}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Poems}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  (1891) describing MS V, along with brief remarks penned probably by Wedderburn. It \softline
is perplexing why this pamphlet was not included in MS IA, a collection compiled after \softline
Collingwood{\u8217\'92}s editing of }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Poems}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  (1891), just as it is perplexing, and intriguing, why the contents \softline
of MS IA were omitted from MS XI.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab The pamphlet requires a description of its own:\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab Most of the booklet{\u8217\'92}s leaves have been cut at the fold and tipped separately onto \softline
successive pages of the notebook. If nothing is lacking{\u8212\'97}and only a front portion of cover, \softline
made of heavier paper, has likely disappeared{\u8212\'97}the booklet consists of 8 leaves that were \softline
folded once to form 16 pp., 10 x 16 cm. The innermost fold, leaves 4{\u8211\'96}5, remains intact, \softline
tending to confirm how the booklet was constructed. Ruskin numbered the pages 1{\u8211\'96}14, \softline
starting with 2r.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab In addition to this gathering, a back cover remains that is white on the inside, facing p. \softline
16, and bright pink on the outer side, and that looks to be the same age as the other leaves. \softline
No matching front cover is extant. Nothing is written on the back cover, but it presumably \softline
formed part of the pamphlet when the editors discovered the little anthology; otherwise, they \softline
would have had no reason to include it. There is no assurance, however, that Ruskin himself \softline
was responsible for the pink cover, when he constructed the pamphlet in 1829, and there is no \softline
way of knowing what, if anything, might have been written or drawn on the front cover.}}