{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\fswiss \fcharset0 \fprq2 Arial Unicode MS;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
{\s1 \qj _26;}
{\s2 \qj\fi-720\li1440\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _25;}
{\s3 \qj\li2160\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _24;}
{\s4 \qj\li2880\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _23;}
{\s5 \qj\li3600\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _22;}
{\s6 \qj\li4320\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _21;}
{\s7 \qj\li5040\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _20;}
{\s8 \qj\li5760\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _19;}
{\s9 \qj\li6480\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _18;}
{\s10 \qj\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _17;}
{\s11 \qj\fi-720\li1440\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _16;}
{\s12 \qj\li2160\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _15;}
{\s13 \qj\li2880\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _14;}
{\s14 \qj\li3600\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _13;}
{\s15 \qj\li4320\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _12;}
{\s16 \qj\li5040\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _11;}
{\s17 \qj\li5760\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _10;}
{\s18 \qj\li6480\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _9;}
{\s19 \qj\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _8;}
{\s20 \qj\fi-720\li1440\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _7;}
{\s21 \qj\li2160\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _6;}
{\s22 \qj\li2880\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _5;}
{\s23 \qj\li3600\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _4;}
{\s24 \qj\li4320\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _3;}
{\s25 \qj\li5040\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _2;}
{\s26 \qj\li5760\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _1;}
{\s27 \qj\li6480\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _;}
{\*\cs28 \additive Default Para;}
{\s29 \qj\tx0\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 header;}
{\*\cs30 \additive page number;}
{\s31 \qj\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 \fs20 footnote tex;}
{\*\cs32 \additive\super footnote ref;}
}\ftnrstcont\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\widowctrl\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstcont\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs22
\tab MS V is the earliest major manuscript that was originally neither a Red Book nor a \softline
homemade booklet. Another new development that Ruskin starts with MS V is the practice of \softline
keeping one notebook for carefully copied presentation of his poetry, while drafting his poems \softline
in other notebooks{\u8212\'97}MS VI and MS VIII, especially. Some evidence suggests that he took \softline
both sorts of notebooks along with him on journeys (see {\u8220\'93}The Day of Judgement{\u8221\'94}), entering \softline
the fair copies in MS V on Sundays or other days when the family paused from traveling. Just \softline
so, the Diary of 1830 was {\u8220\'93}written up{\u8221\'94} from notes during a lengthened stop.\par
\tab Ruskin did compile poetry anthologies prior to MS V, but they were comparatively brief \softline
and served to fill out Red Books whose main feature was the ongoing {\u8220\'93}Harry and Lucy{\u8221\'94} \softline
narrative: see MS I Poetry Anthology, Poetry Descriptive, MS III Second Poetry Anthology, \softline
and MS III Poetry Anthology.\par
\tab While no apparent logic governs completion of the anthology other than filling the \softline
notebook, it appears from John James Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s open-ended record of his son{\u8217\'92}s age as the \softline
boy entered successive fair copies (see Description) that the father at least may have looked \softline
for completion on those terms. Ruskin, however, left over thirty pages blank at the end of the \softline
manuscript (see Contents); and the likeliest explanation for this neglect may be that he was \softline
drawn to a grander project{\u8212\'97}the fair copy in MS VII of {\u8220\'93}Iteriad{\u8221\'94} and {\u8220\'93}Athens.{\u8221\'94} Selections from \softline
these epic-length poems appear toward the end of MS V, suggesting that Ruskin grew \softline
dissatisfied with their constrained appearance in Miscellaneous Poetry and abandoned the \softline
anthology for grander presentation in MS VII. (Since Ruskin did not complete fair-copying \softline
{\u8220\'93}Athens{\u8221\'94} in MS VII, however, it is also possible that he returned to MS V to enter 17 stanzas of \softline
that poem on a less ambitious scale than that begun in MS VII.)\par
\tab On p. 167{\u8212\'97}a verso, facing the first of the three blank final leaves (see \softline
Description){\u8212\'97}Ruskin wrote in ink, but then erased,  MISCELLANEOUS POETRY / \softline
HELVELLYN.  This is how the notebook begins on p. 1, so the reason for the erasure is not \softline
apparent. Since the erased material is upside down to the text coming from the other direction, \softline
perhaps it represents a false start.\par
\tab On the back inside endpaper, Ruskin scribbled some numbers.}