{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\froman \fcharset0 \fprq2 Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
}\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstpg\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs24
Content\par
\tab Notebook 1:\par
\tab a) Blank colored endpaper (1r), with penciled note in Latin on verso (1v), and followed by \softline
blank leaf (2r-v).\par
\tab b) Chapters of no. 255, as described above (3r-? [pp. 1-123, in Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s numbering). \softline
Pagination of individual chapters:\par
\tab    No. 4. The Mountain Cottage. Switzerland  (i.e., pt. 1, chap. 3), 3r-8v (pp. 1-12).\par
\tab    Chapter 5{\plain \fs24 \super th}{\plain \fs24  The Mountain Cottage. Westmoreland  (i.e., pt. 1, chap. 4), 8v-15r (pp. 12-25).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab    Chap 6}{\plain \fs24 \super th}{\plain \fs24  A Chapter on Chimnies  (}{\plain \fs24 \ul sic}{\plain \fs24 ) (i.e., pt. 1, chap. 5), 15r-22r (pp. 25-39).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab    Chap. 7th  (i.e., pt. 1, chap. 6), 22r-27v (pp. 39-50).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab    Ch. 8. The Villa  (i.e., pt. 2, chap. 1), 28r-35v (pp. 51-66).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab    Ch. 9. The villa. Italy  (i.e., pt. 2, chap. 2), 35v-44r (pp. 66-83).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab    Ch. 10. The Villa. Italy  (i.e., pt. 2, chap. 3), 44r-50r (pp. 83-95.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab    Ch. 11. The Villa. England  (i.e., pt. 2, chap. 4), 50v-56r (pp. 96-107).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab    Chap 12. <No 3.> The Villa.  (i.e., pt. 2, chap. 5), 56v-63v (pp. 108-22).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab c) Drawing, diagrams, and brief notes, 64r.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab d) Blank colored endpaper, 64v, and inside back cover.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Notebook 2:\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab a) Blank colored endpaper and first leaf (1r-2v).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab b) Chapters of no. 255, as described above (3r-20v). Pagination of individual chapters:\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab   3r-11r (i.e., pp. 1-17):  Chap. 14. The mountain villa. England,  i.e., as published, pt. 2, chap. \softline
7 through {\u167\'a7} 229.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab   11v-20r (i.e., pp. 18-34 plus recto of the following, unnumbered leaf):  Chap. 15. The \softline
mountain Villa. England,  i.e., as published, pt. 2, chap. 7 from {\u167\'a7} 230 to end.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab   20r-v (unnumbered): untitled ms., i.e., as published, pt. 2, chap. 6, {\u167\'a7}{\u167\'a7} 182-84 ({\u167\'a7} 184 partial).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab c) Draft of an early opening to }{\plain \fs24 \ul Modern Painters}{\plain \fs24 , which was written largely on rectos only, \softline
many of the remaining blank versos being used later for (d) below. Pagination of specific portions of \softline
manuscript as follows:\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab   21r (with a brief insertion in the text spilling onto a blank portion of 20v), 22r, 23r: untitled \softline
draft, printed in }{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24  3: 680-81, as draft (}{\plain \fs24 \ul a}{\plain \fs24 ).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab   24r, 25r, 26r, 27r, 28r, 29r, 30r-v, 31r-v, 32r, 33r: draft entitled  Chap. 1. Of Imitative art,  \softline
which is described and quoted in }{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24  3: 681, as draft (}{\plain \fs24 \ul b}{\plain \fs24 ). It is worth noting that, after two pages of \softline
this draft (24r and 25r), which seem to constitute an abortive beginning, Ruskin began numbering (from \softline
26r) the rectos as pp. 1-8 (26-33 rectos only; versos ignored in his pagination, which, at the time, \softline
would have been blank). This numbering probably points to a second start on this chapter.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab   34r, 35r, 36r-v, 37r, 38r, 39r (mutilated), 40r, 41r-v, 42r-v, 43r, 44r, 45r-v, 46r-v, 47r \softline
(these rectos numbered by Ruskin as pp. 9-22, including the mutilated leaf): called  Chap II  in draft, \softline
the Library Edition identifies this as  substantially the same  as pt. 2, sec. 1, chap. 2 (i.e., }{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24  3: 140-48; see also 681). A beginning on the chapter was made on 34r, 35r, and 36r; then the chapter was \softline
begun anew on 37r, carrying through 47r--rectos mainly, with some brief notes and draft on 36v, 41v, \softline
42v, 45v, and 46v.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab   The next section is complex owing to leaves having been mutilated or cut away altogether, 
}{\plain \fs24 \ul after}{\plain \fs24  Ruskin numbered the rectos. As suggested in the Library Edition, the lost leaves probably \softline
contained the beginning of a chapter 4, since this portion of the manuscript begins with  Chap. III. Of \softline
the relative importance of truths  (47r), and arrives at  Chap. 5  (60r). This material was identified by \softline
the editors of the Library Edition as the germ of pt. 2, sec. 2, chaps 1-3 of }{\plain \fs24 \ul Modern Painters}{\plain \fs24 --the truths \softline
of tone, color, and chiaroscuro.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab The original pagination of this section of notebook 2 is somewhat doubtful, for it is difficult to \softline
determine the original position of the removed leaves, but the following is reasonably accurate (Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s \softline
pagination is cited in parentheses, which continues to refer to rectos only). Chapters 3/4 of manuscript \softline
are contained in 47r (p. 22), 48r (p. 23, with a brief note on 48v), 49r (p. 24), 50r (p. 25, with a long  \softline
note  on 50v), 51r (p. 26), 52r (p. 27).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Then, according to Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s numbering, which next shows a p. 30, two leaves have been \softline
removed. One of these remains present as a mutilated (partially cut away) 53r; as this leaf, along with p. \softline
30, forms the center of a 12}{\plain \fs24 \super o}{\plain \fs24  gathering, it would have been numbered p. 29 on its recto. The other \softline
removed leaf, evidenced only by small torn stubs, would have been the preceding p. 28.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Chapters 3/4 continue with 54r (p. 30), 55r (p. 31), 56r (p. 32), 57r (p 33), 58r (p. 34), 59r \softline
(p. 35), 60r (p. 36). Separately from this run of text, Ruskin inserted a distinct piece of text on a series \softline
of versos, 54v, 55v, 56v, 57v, which would later be incorporated into the  Truth of Chiaroscuro  \softline
chapter of }{\plain \fs24 \ul Modern Painters}{\plain \fs24  (pt. 2, sec. 2, chap. 3).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab    Chap. 5,  which the editors of the Library Edition connect with pt. 2, sec. 2, chaps. 4-5 of the \softline
published }{\plain \fs24 \ul Modern Painters}{\plain \fs24 , is contained in 60r-81r, with briefer notes on 60v, 63v, 65v, 67v, 71v, \softline
79v, 80v. The rectos were numbered by Ruskin up through p. 45 (69r).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab d) Nearly complete manuscript of letter to the }{\plain \fs24 \ul Times}{\plain \fs24 , 7 January 1847, up to  mighty foundation  \softline
in middle of closing sentence on 21v, 22v, 23v, 24v, 25v, 26v, 27v, 28v, 29v, 32v, 33v, 34v, 35v, 36r \softline
(following a fragment of }{\plain \fs24 \ul Modern Painters}{\plain \fs24  draft at top of page), 36v (following a fragment of }{\plain \fs24 \ul Modern \softline
Painters}{\plain \fs24  draft at top of page), 37v, 38v, 39v (a mutilated page, of which the verso contains only one \softline
word  foundation,  which should indeed follow  mighty,  end of 38v). (Two versos, 30v and 31v, were \softline
skipped over in drafting the letter, because these pages had already been used for overflow from the \softline
}{\plain \fs24 \ul Modern Painters}{\plain \fs24  text.). The closing words of the letter do not appear to be extant; their draft may have \softline
been lost with the portion of 39r-v that was cut away.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab e) Blank 82r-v and 83r-v. The inside back board contains diagrams of curves.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 Dating: the Times letter is dated Jan 6, 1847 in Lib Ed (12:406), and is said to have been published Jan \softline
7 (12:396). If that{\u8217\'92}s right we can take the composition of that portion of ms. as Jan 5-6 (see 12:397 \softline
and n. 2).}}