{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\froman \fcharset0 \fprq2 Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
}\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstpg\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs24
\tab Two notebooks contained in dark-blue morocco-covered slipcase, gilded on the spine with the \softline
designation  RUSKIN / MS. / {\plain \fs24 \scaps POETRY}{\plain \fs24  / }{\plain \fs24 \scaps OF}{\plain \fs24  / }{\plain \fs24 \scaps ARCHITECTURE}{\plain \fs24  / }{\plain \fs24 \scaps MODERN}{\plain \fs24  / }{\plain \fs24 \scaps PAINTERS}{\plain \fs24 . / \softline
}{\plain \fs24 \scaps VOL. I}{\plain \fs24 . / &}{\plain \fs24 \super C}{\plain \fs24 . / 1902. \par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab As described in }{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24  1:2, two identical notebooks contain the incompletely surviving \softline
manuscript of }{\plain \fs24 \ul The Poetry of Architecture}{\plain \fs24 , the series of essays originally published in ?? Loudon{\u8217\'92}s \softline
magazine, ??. The second of the two notebooks contains also manuscript of Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s letter to the }{\plain \fs24 \ul Times}{\plain \fs24  \softline
of 7 January 1847 (}{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24  12: 397-406), and early draft of the opening of }{\plain \fs24 \ul Modern Painters}{\plain \fs24  I (first \softline
printed in part, in a heavily edited version, in }{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24  3: 680-82). The texts are written in ink on lightly \softline
ruled, unwatermarked paper, bound in half-calf and marbled boards, approx. 16.8 {\u215\'d7} 20.3 cm. The \softline
binding appears original, as the marbling on the boards matches that on the edges of the paper. The \softline
following detailed discussion is focused especially on }{\plain \fs24 \ul The Poetry of Architecture}{\plain \fs24 . For discussion of the \softline
other two manuscripts, see the appropriate volumes in }{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24  and....\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul Notebook 1}{\plain \fs24 .--The first volume contains 64 leaves, including endpapers. The text begins on 3r, \softline
and is accurately numbered by Ruskin as pp. 1-122 (page numbers are frequently omitted, but the next \softline
page to be numbered is always counted accurately, as if all pages had numbered consistently \softline
throughout). Although this notebook contains fewer leaves than does notebook 2, it shows no evidence \softline
of leaves having been removed.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Tipped into the front of the notebook 1 is a description, in Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s hand, listing the \softline
contents as follows:\par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 Ruskin MS.\par
}{\plain \fs24 This book contains the original MS. of the following chapters of  The Poetry of Architecture \par
}{\plain \fs24 Part I.\ul0 \tab Chap.\ul0 \tab 3.\par
}{\plain \fs24 4.\par
}{\plain \fs24 5.\par
}{\plain \fs24 6.\par
}{\plain \fs24 Part II.\ul0 \tab Chap.\ul0 \tab 1.\par
}{\plain \fs24 2.\par
}{\plain \fs24 3.\par
}{\plain \fs24 4.\par
}{\plain \fs24 5.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s table accurately lists the contents, according to the chapter{\u8217\'92}s numbering first \softline
adopted in ? and carried through ?. Notebook 1 begins with what Ruskin designates in manuscript as  \softline
No. 4,  a chapter found as chapter 3 in the Library Edition. This discrepancy carries through the draft{\u8217\'92}s  \softline
Chap. 7th --that is, chapter 6 of part 1 in the Library Edition--and on into the draft{\u8217\'92}s  Ch. 8. The Villa,  \softline
which forms chapter 1 of part 2 in the Library Edition. Notebook 1 continues in this manner through  \softline
Chap 12. <No 3.> The Villa. --that is, in the Library Edition numbering, chapter 5 of part 2.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Notebook 1 contains the originals of a few, by no means all, of the diagrams and sketches used \softline
to illustrate the published papers. One pencil sketch on the back endpaper of a roofline with gothic \softline
arches is not published, so far as I am aware.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul Notebook 2}{\plain \fs24 .--This notebook is second in the sense that it contains the continuation of the \softline
}{\plain \fs24 \ul Poetry of Architecture}{\plain \fs24  essays from notebook 1. Notebook 2 nonetheless displays a large, handwritten \softline
numeral  1  on the front cover. If by Ruskin, the numeral perhaps refers to the }{\plain \fs24 \ul Modern Painters}{\plain \fs24  
manuscript, which was begun on a recto immediately following the }{\plain \fs24 \ul Poetry of Architecture}{\plain \fs24  the last \softline
installment of the manuscript.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Notebook 2 consists of 83 leaves, including some that have been partially cut away. A few \softline
more leaves were cut away altogether, with only very small stubs left behind.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s table of contents, tipped into the front of notebook 2, reads as follows:\par
}{\plain \fs24 Ruskin MS.\par
}{\plain \fs24 This book contains\par
}{\plain \fs24 1.\ul0 \tab Chapter VII of Part II of the Poetry of Architecture--arranged in the MS as two chapters 14 & \softline
15.\par
}{\plain \fs24 2.\ul0 \tab MS. of parts of Modern Painters. Vol. 1.\par
}{\plain \fs24 3.\ul0 \tab The draft of the letter on the  National Gallery  (Times Jan 7, 1847), p. 38\par
}\pard \fs24\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tqr\tx8640
{\plain \fs24 \tab The major portion of }{\plain \fs24 \ul The Poetry of Architecture}{\plain \fs24  contained in the second notebook is chapter 7 \softline
of part 2, the final chapter published by Loudon before ceasing publication of his magazine. In draft, this \softline
chapter is divided in two, designated as chapters 14 and 15. The division occurs at paragraph 230 as \softline
presently numbered, this paragraph forming the opening of the draft chapter 15. Since the two draft \softline
chapters are entitled identically in draft, as  The mountain Villa. England,  Ruskin must always have \softline
conceived of them as a unit.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s table of contents for notebook 2 fails to list a portion of what is now known as \softline
chapter 6. Wedderburn may well have overlooked the chapter 6 fragment, since these few paragraphs \softline
}{\plain \fs24 \ul follow}{\plain \fs24  chapter 7 in manuscript, and are not separately headed--only a blank line space indicating the \softline
separation between chapters. Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s omission is corrected in the description of the manuscript \softline
provided in the Library Edition (}{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24  1:2), but this description, while generally accurate, allows the \softline
impression that the }{\plain \fs24 \ul first}{\plain \fs24  notebook }{\plain \fs24 \ul ends}{\plain \fs24  with the fragment of chapter 6--that is, with paragraphs 182-84, \softline
as numbered in the Library Edition--whereas, in fact, notebook 1 ends with paragraph 181 (}{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24  \softline
1:138), the conclusion of chapter 5, part 2. Paragraphs 182-84 constitute the fragment of chapter 6 that \softline
follows chapter 7 in notebook 2.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab  More precisely, the fragment of chapter 6 in notebook 2 extends from its opening (paragraph \softline
182) through the }{\plain \fs24 \ul middle}{\plain \fs24  of paragraph 184, ending with the phrase  fine detached specimens of the \softline
picturesque blue country  (in the published version,  fine detached specimens of the natural {\u8216\'91}green \softline
country{\u8217\'92}  [}{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24  1:140]). According to the Library Edition, this opening of chapter 6 plus a few more \softline
paragraphs existed also in a separate manuscript:  {\u167\'a7}{\u167\'a7} 182-194 are preserved in the four pages of a \softline
separate sheet of foolscap. Thus of {\u167\'a7}{\u167\'a7} 182-184 there are two MS. copies  (}{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24  1:2). This second \softline
foolscap copy must have been what was reproduced for the Library Edition (}{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24  1:140 opp.), since \softline
that facsimile shows a portion of manuscript later in paragraph 184 than what is available in notebook \softline
2. The foolscap manuscript is not held by PML....\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab As for the remainder of }{\plain \fs24 \ul The Poetry of Architecture}{\plain \fs24  manuscript, not contained in the PML \softline
notebooks or the ? foolscap manuscript, the Library Edition{\u8217\'92}s statement apparently remains correct, \softline
that  of {\u167\'a7}{\u167\'a7} 1-37 and {\u167\'a7}{\u167\'a7} 194-212 there is no MS extant  (}{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24  1:2).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab In notebook 2, the text begins on 3r, and, as in notebook 1, the pages are accurately but \softline
erratically numbered by Ruskin--i.e., he counts the pages correctly, but actually writes numbers on the \softline
pages sporadically, starting from page 7. This continues through page 34; pages 35-36 (unnumbered by \softline
Ruskin) hold the end of chapter 7, and the fragment of chapter 6. Then begin the later manuscripts \softline
included in notebook 2, the }{\plain \fs24 \ul Times}{\plain \fs24  letter (}{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24  12:397-406), and the }{\plain \fs24 \ul Modern Painters}{\plain \fs24  I fragment.}}