{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\froman \fcharset0 \fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss \fcharset0 \fprq2 Arial Unicode MS;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
{\s1 \qj\li720 Level 1;}
}\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstpg\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs24\qc 
{\plain \fs24 \f1 MANUSCRIPTS INDEXES\par
}\pard \fs24
{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab The }{\plain \fs24 \i\f1 manuscripts}{\plain \fs24 \f1  are physical documents manifesting Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s early texts. These \softline
are surveyed in Overview of the Manuscripts.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab The Manuscripts Indexes list titles, which are assigned to them according to rules \softline
explained in System of Title Citation for Manuscripts. The reader can arrange the titles list \softline
in two ways:\par
}\sect \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pnstart1\pnf1\pnhang{\pntxta {\'95}}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnstart1\pnf1\pnhang{\pntxta {\'95}}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnstart1\pnf1\pnhang{\pntxta {\'95}}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnstart1\pnf1\pnhang{\pntxta {\'95}}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnstart1\pnf1\pnhang{\pntxta {\'95}}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnstart1\pnf1\pnhang{\pntxta {\'95}}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pnstart1\pnf1\pnhang{\pntxta {\'95}}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnstart1\pnf1\pnhang{\pntxta {\'95}}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnstart1\pnf1\pnhang{\pntxta {\'95}}}

{\pntext\pard {\'95}\tab}
\pard \fs24\s1\fi-720\li720\tx720 {\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnstart1\pnf1\pnindent1\pnhang{\pntxta {\'95}}}

{\plain \fs24 \f1 By alphabet.\par
}{\pntext\pard {\'95}\tab}
\pard \fs24\s1\fi-720\li720\tx720 {\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnstart1\pnf1\pnindent1\pnhang{\pntxta {\'95}}}

{\plain \fs24 \f1 By chronology. The position of a major manuscript in chronological sequence is \softline
based on its earliest date of use. However, because Ruskin reused many major \softline
manuscripts at various times, in some cases over a range of years, placement in \softline
this index gives only an approximate overview of a chronology that is accessible \softline
with greater precision in the chronological view of the Works Indexes or \softline
(discursively) in the Date sections of Apparatus Pages for individual major \softline
manuscripts or works.\par
}\pard \fs24{\*\pn \pnlvlcont}
{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab Access to a major manuscript selected from any of the indexes defaults to that \softline
major manuscript{\u8217\'92}s Apparatus Pages. Unlike }{\plain \fs24 \i\f1 works}{\plain \fs24 \f1 , major manuscripts have no Text \softline
Pages other than those belonging to the works comprised within them; however, a tour of \softline
those Text Pages, sequentially arranged, for a given major manuscript is available in the \softline
Contents section of the Apparatus Page. See the Plan of the Archive.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 MANUSCRIPTS{\u8217\'92} TITLES INDEXES\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 Alphabetical Index\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 Chronological Index\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 See also the Works Indexes Page; the Commentary Indexes Page; the Timeline and Map \softline
Tool; and the Advanced Search Page.}}