{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\froman \fcharset0 \fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss \fcharset0 \fprq2 Arial;}{\f2\fswiss \fcharset0 \fprq2 Arial Unicode MS;}
{\f3\fnil \fcharset0 \fprq2 WP TypographicSymbols;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
{\s1 \qj\li720 Level 1;}
}\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstpg\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs24\qc 
{\plain \fs24 \f1 WORKS INDEXES\par
}\pard \fs24
{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab A }{\plain \fs24 \i\f1 work}{\plain \fs24 \f1  consists of a discrete }{\plain \fs24 \i\f1 text}{\plain \fs24 \f1  by Ruskin with all its parts, accompanied by its \softline
explanatory }{\plain \fs24 \i\f1 apparatus}{\plain \fs24 \f1 . Access to a work selected from any of the indexes defaults to a \softline
work{\u8217\'92}s Main Text Page, linking to its corresponding Apparatus Page, but the reader may \softline
change the default in order to enter via the Apparatus Page. These pages are explained in \softline
Plan of the Archive.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab The Works Indexes list titles, which are assigned to works according to rules \softline
explained in System of Title Citation for Works. The reader can arrange the titles{\u8217\'92} list in \softline
four ways:\par
}\sect \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pnstart1\pnf1\pnhang{\pntxta {\'95}}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnstart1\pnf1\pnhang{\pntxta {\'95}}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnstart1\pnf1\pnhang{\pntxta {\'95}}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnstart1\pnf1\pnhang{\pntxta {\'95}}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnstart1\pnf1\pnhang{\pntxta {\'95}}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnstart1\pnf1\pnhang{\pntxta {\'95}}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pnstart1\pnf1\pnhang{\pntxta {\'95}}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnstart1\pnf1\pnhang{\pntxta {\'95}}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnstart1\pnf1\pnhang{\pntxta {\'95}}}

{\pntext\pard {\'95}\tab}
\pard \fs24\s1\fi-720\li720\tx720 {\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnstart1\pnf1\pnindent1\pnhang{\pntxta {\'95}}}

{\plain \fs24 \f1 By alphabet.\par
}{\pntext\pard {\'95}\tab}
\pard \fs24\s1\fi-720\li720\tx720 {\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnstart1\pnf1\pnindent1\pnhang{\pntxta {\'95}}}

{\plain \fs24 \f1 By date.\par
}{\pntext\pard {\'95}\tab}
\pard \fs24\s1\fi-720\li720\tx720 {\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnstart1\pnf1\pnindent1\pnhang{\pntxta {\'95}}}

{\plain \fs24 \f1 By genre and subgenre (with the choice to arrange works{\'92} titles alphabetically or \softline
chronologically under a selected genre). Indexing by genre, as by alphabet and \softline
chronology, is comprehensive for all works in the edition; however, some works are \softline
classified unhelpfully as Miscellaneous, if their intention is unknown and their texts \softline
appear too unformed or ambiguous to be definitively identified by genre.\par
}{\pntext\pard {\'95}\tab}
\pard \fs24\s1\fi-720\li720\tx720 {\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnstart1\pnf1\pnindent1\pnhang{\pntxta {\'95}}}

{\plain \fs24 \f1 By group (with the choice to arrange works{\'92} titles alphabetically, chronologically, or \softline
according to Ruskin{\'92}s sequential arrangement within the group). A }{\plain \fs24 \i\f1 group}{\plain \fs24 \f1  is an \softline
assemblage of texts that Ruskin arguably intended to form a collection{\'97}an \softline
anthology of poems, a series of sermons, stories gathered around a frame tale, a \softline
scientific dictionary. }{\plain \fs24 \i\f1 Groups}{\plain \fs24 \f1  are not coterminous with }{\plain \fs24 \i\f1 major manuscripts}{\plain \fs24 \f1 , which \softline
refer to physical documents rather than to the texts they manifest, and which were \softline
seldom devoted to a single group of texts (see }{\plain \fs24 \f2 Major Manuscripts Index Menu \softline
Page}{\plain \fs24 \f1 ). Indexing by group is not comprehensive for all works in the edition, as \softline
Ruskin wrote many texts that he assigned to no group, so far as we now can tell. \softline
Groups are entitled according to the same rules governing titles of works, explained \softline
in the System of Title Citation for Works.\par
}\pard \fs24{\*\pn \pnlvlcont}
{\plain \fs24 \f1 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 WORKS{\u8217\'92} INDEXES (BY TITLE)\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 Enter a Work via its {\f3 \'47} Main Text Page or {\f3 \'47} Apparatus Page\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 Alphabetical Index\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 Chronological Index\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 Genre Index (sort under chosen genre {\f3 \'47} alphabetically or {\f3 \'47} chronologically)\par
}\pard \fs24\fi-720\li720 {\*\pn \pnlvlcont}
{\plain \fs24 \f1 Group Index (sort under chosen group {\f3 \'47} alphabetically or {\f3 \'47} chronologically or {\f3 \'47} \softline
sequentially)\par
}\pard \fs24{\*\pn \pnlvlcont}
{\plain \fs24 \f1 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \f2 See also the Major Manuscripts Indexes Page; Commentary Indexes Page; Timeline and \softline
Map Tool; Advanced Search Page.}}