{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\froman \fcharset0 \fprq2 Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
}\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstpg\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs24
Content\par
\tab {\plain \fs24 \ul a}{\plain \fs24 ) Two sheets watermarked  Judicature Foolscap,  32.5 {\u215\'d7} 19.5 cm, hand-ruled in light pencil \softline
and otherwise blank except for a letter }{\plain \fs24 \ul d}{\plain \fs24 , which resembles Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s early script, in upper right corner \softline
of first recto. These are most likely unrelated binder{\u8217\'92}s sheets, or sheets added by Alexander \softline
Wedderburn, who frequently used such large sheets to list a table of contents for the manuscripts he \softline
assembled and had bound (see also }{\plain \fs24 \ul i}{\plain \fs24 , below; contrary to Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s usual practice, however, no \softline
title or table of contents prefaces MS IVD). If these are binder{\u8217\'92}s sheets, the notation }{\plain \fs24 \ul d}{\plain \fs24  is not, of course, \softline
by Ruskin. If the sheets are original to the dictionary, however, and the }{\plain \fs24 \ul d}{\plain \fs24  by Ruskin, he may have left \softline
them to indicate a proposed continuation, since the dictionary had bogged down in the }{\plain \fs24 \ul C}{\plain \fs24 s (see no. 98).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul b}{\plain \fs24 ) Two sheets mounted on stubs, 19 {\u215\'d7} 30.5 cm, watermarked  A Cowan & Son / 1830,  \softline
numbered on rectos 1 and 2 by a later hand. If preceded by }{\plain \fs24 \ul h}{\plain \fs24  (see below), which is bound out of \softline
sequence, the three folios }{\plain \fs24 \ul h}{\plain \fs24  and }{\plain \fs24 \ul b}{\plain \fs24 , along with the first recto of }{\plain \fs24 \ul c}{\plain \fs24 , form the earliest part of the \softline
Mineralogical Dictionary--i.e., unalphabetized entries on gold, silver, iron, copper, and lead. This \softline
earliest attempt at the dictionary is described in no. 98 and dated about 1831-32.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul c}{\plain \fs24 ) One loose (?) sheet plus a sewn booklet, all identical in size and watermark to }{\plain \fs24 \ul b}{\plain \fs24 , with rectos \softline
numbered 3 through 7 by a later hand. The recto of the first sheet, which appears glued to the sewn \softline
booklet (although in the present state of MS IVD, it cannot be ascertained whether the sheet was \softline
originally loose), begins with text on ruby copper, which is clearly continuous with the text that ends }{\plain \fs24 \ul b}{\plain \fs24 . \softline
This recto goes on to describe varieties of lead, to the bottom of the page. Then, on the verso of that \softline
folio, the dictionary begins anew with alphabetized entries ( Acanticone,   Actynolite,   Glossy \softline
Actynolite,  etc.)--Ruskin deleting an entry at the top of this page for  Phosphate of Lead,  which would \softline
have been continuous with the discussion of lead begun on the recto. The new series of alphabetized \softline
entries continues throughout this sewn booklet and on into }{\plain \fs24 \ul d}{\plain \fs24 , }{\plain \fs24 \ul e}{\plain \fs24 , and }{\plain \fs24 \ul g}{\plain \fs24 . The alphabetized entries date \softline
from 1833-35 (see no. 98).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul d}{\plain \fs24 ) Another sewn booklet, identical in size and watermark to }{\plain \fs24 \ul b}{\plain \fs24 , rectos numbered 8 through 15 \softline
in a later hand. Clearly an unbroken continuation of }{\plain \fs24 \ul c}{\plain \fs24 , since the end of }{\plain \fs24 \ul c}{\plain \fs24  reads  See next paper for \softline
continuation of Amber,  and the top of }{\plain \fs24 \ul d}{\plain \fs24 , 8r, reads  Amber continued.  This booklet carries the \softline
Dictionary into the }{\plain \fs24 \ul B}{\plain \fs24 s.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul e}{\plain \fs24 ) Sewn booklet, 19.5 {\u215\'d7} 32 cm, watermarked  J & M Mills / 1827,  rectos numbered 16 \softline
through 21 in a later hand. Begins in mid-entry on basaltic rocks, carrying over from end of }{\plain \fs24 \ul d}{\plain \fs24 . Again, \softline
the continuity is confirmed by Ruskin having written, at the end of }{\plain \fs24 \ul d}{\plain \fs24 ,  See opposite page,  and the text \softline
continuing unbroken at the start of the new booklet. This booklet finishes the }{\plain \fs24 \ul B}{\plain \fs24 s and takes }{\plain \fs24 \ul C}{\plain \fs24 s up to  \softline
clay  entries. Ruskin drew an ornament at the end of }{\plain \fs24 \ul e}{\plain \fs24 , much like those found in other fair-copy \softline
manuscripts of the early 1830s.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul f}{\plain \fs24 ) Interrupting the Dictionary, no. 98, this handsewn booklet contains no. 196, geological notes \softline
and illustrations more sophisticated than the Dictionary and dating from 1835-36. The booklet is made \softline
of bluish, unwatermarked paper; 19 {\u215\'d7} 31.5 cm; 16 folios, of which only the first eight have been \softline
numbered 22 through 29 on the rectos by a later hand, the following six left unnumbered because \softline
blank, and the fifteenth and sixteenth numbered as 30 and 31. The first three pages were also numbered \softline
by Ruskin himself.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab The two folios at the end contain, reading upside-down and running oppositely to the text at the \softline
beginning of the booklet, a rough draft entry for  Acanticone.  ( Acanticone  forms the first entry of the \softline
fair-copy alphabetized portion of }{\plain \fs24 \ul c}{\plain \fs24  above, but Ruskin had merely cross-referenced the item for an entry 
in the }{\plain \fs24 \ul E}{\plain \fs24 s, not yet written:  Is a variety of Epidote which see. ) This rough draft for  Acanticone  is \softline
followed by page references to various minerals in Saussure{\u8217\'92}s }{\plain \fs24 \ul Voyages dans les Alpes}{\plain \fs24  (amber 267, salt \softline
297, basalt 345 373 (1)), and then by lists of references to minerals found in an unknown multivolume \softline
work up to the eighth volume (not the }{\plain \fs24 \ul Magazine of Natural History}{\plain \fs24 ) (??? vol 8, garnets 20, schorl 36, \softline
gold 38; vol 7 hyacinth 140, prxnite 143, manganese 145). Still working backwards from the end of the \softline
booklet, on the overleaf of the acanticone entry and the indexes, Ruskin gives another index that he has \softline
compiled from some work (cross stone 1:362, cyanite 2:94, diamond 1:1, dolomite 2:462, electrum \softline
3:67). Since these are alphabetized }{\plain \fs24 \ul C}{\plain \fs24  to }{\plain \fs24 \ul F}{\plain \fs24  ( corundum  through  euclase  and  felspar ), he was \softline
probably projecting entries for the continuation of the Mineralogical Dictionary, which had come to a  \softline
stick  in 1835 with the }{\plain \fs24 \ul C}{\plain \fs24 s (see no. 98)--the last completed entries having concerned forms of copper, \softline
which would alphabetically have preceded  corundum.  Finally, on both sides of the second of these \softline
ending folios, a key to Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s mineralogical code, expanded and revised from an earlier code (see no. \softline
99). All these entries on the two end folios appear earlier than no. 196 and more closely related to no. \softline
98, especially to its unfulfilled continuation, suggesting that Ruskin initially constructed the booklet for \softline
purposes of no. 98, put it aside, and later returned to it for the more advanced purposes of no. 196.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul g}{\plain \fs24 ) Returning to the Mineralogical Dictionary proper, no. 98, this last complex assemblage \softline
interleaves blank pages of differing sizes with holograph pages, the blanks evidently provided in order \softline
to take up runover and afterthoughts--as indeed they sometimes do. In sequence, the folios of this \softline
handsewn booklet are as follows:\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul g.1}{\plain \fs24 ) Three sheets, same bluish paper as }{\plain \fs24 \ul f}{\plain \fs24 , 18.5 {\u215\'d7} 31.5, rectos numbered 32 through 34 by a \softline
later hand, and beginning with entry on  Clay slate,  which answers to the last entry of }{\plain \fs24 \ul e}{\plain \fs24 ,  Slate clay.  \softline
(Sheet numbered 35 does not belong with this sequence; see }{\plain \fs24 \ul h}{\plain \fs24  below.)\par
}{\plain \fs24 \ul g.2}{\plain \fs24 ) Blank unnumbered , 19.5 {\u215\'d7} 32.5, no watermark.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \ul g.3}{\plain \fs24 ) Bluish 18.5 {\u215\'d7} 31.5 sheet, later numbered 36, which continues coal entries from }{\plain \fs24 \ul g.1}{\plain \fs24 , 34v.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \ul g.4}{\plain \fs24 ) Blank 32.5 {\u215\'d7} 19.5 sheet, no watermark.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \ul g.5}{\plain \fs24 ) Bluish 18.5 {\u215\'d7} 31.5 sheet, later numbered 37, continuing on coal.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \ul g.6}{\plain \fs24 ) Blank unnumbered 19.5 {\u215\'d7} 32.5 sheet, no watermark.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \ul g.7}{\plain \fs24 ) A large swatch of the bluish 18.5 {\u215\'d7} 31.5 folios, interleaved with both small blank half-sheets (about \softline
16 {\u215\'d7} 20 cm) and larger, folio-sized sheets of white paper. Of these, the holograph pages (including \softline
many of the bluish sheets and a few of the half-sheets) are numbered 38 through 45, while sixteen \softline
completely blank folios of differing sizes are left unnumbered. Included among the latter are two blank \softline
folios, 32.5 {\u215\'d7} 19.5, watermarked  J Whatman / Turkey Mill / 1832,  proving that these blanks were \softline
interleaved by Ruskin, and not by the later binders of the manuscript. The last entry (incomplete) in }{\plain \fs24 \ul g}{\plain \fs24  \softline
gives the heading only for  Earthy red copper ore. \par
}{\plain \fs24 \ul g.8}{\plain \fs24 ) A final folio that forms the back of the booklet, numbered 46, shows on its verso a sketch of a \softline
roadside cottage or inn.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul h}{\plain \fs24 ) Although bound on a stub in the middle of }{\plain \fs24 \ul g}{\plain \fs24  (between folio 34 and a large blank folio) and \softline
numbered 35 by a later hand, I list this folio separately because it clearly belongs in front of }{\plain \fs24 \ul b}{\plain \fs24 . Identical \softline
in size and watermark to }{\plain \fs24 \ul b}{\plain \fs24 , the closing entry on  white silver  on }{\plain \fs24 \ul h}{\plain \fs24 , 35v, runs smoothly into the text on \softline
silver at the top of }{\plain \fs24 \ul b}{\plain \fs24 , 1r.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul i}{\plain \fs24 ) Two folios, indentical to }{\plain \fs24 \ul a}{\plain \fs24 , though with no lettering, close the entire manuscript. Most likely \softline
binder{\u8217\'92}s sheets.}}