{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\froman \fcharset0 \fprq2 Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
}\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstpg\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs24
\tab In its initial use, this was a fair-copy notebook used primarily for  Iteriad,  no. 91, and  Athens,  \softline
no. 135, which are fair-copied in a hand similar to, but larger than, that used for MSS IIA-E.\par
\tab Title page (1r):  ITERIAD / or / THREE WEEKS / {\plain \fs24 \scaps AMONG}{\plain \fs24  / the / LAKES / 1831.  The title \softline
page, which Ruskin displayed in fancy lettering drawn from }{\plain \fs24 \ul Butterworth{\u8217\'92}s Young Arithmetician{\u8217\'92}s \softline
Instructor: Containing Specimens of Writing with Directions}{\plain \fs24  (}{\plain \fs24 \ul RFL}{\plain \fs24  259, 261 n. 17) is reproduced in \softline
}{\plain \fs24 \ul Iteriad, or Three Weeks among the Lakes}{\plain \fs24 , ed. James S. Dearden (Newcastle upon Tyne: Frank \softline
Graham, 1969), among the illustrations between pp. 32 and 33. Similar lettering occurs in some of \softline
Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s letters to his father in MS XI.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab On the verso of the title page, Ruskin drew another fancily lettered  Iteriad,  followed by  Book \softline
First / The argument  and a prose summary of the first book{\u8217\'92}s contents. Each of the three remaining \softline
books begins much the same way, without  Iteriad  repeated, but with a fancy ornament separating the \softline
text of the argument from the poem.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Title page (59r):  ATHE[NS / }{\plain \fs16 \fs16 OR THE}{\plain \fs24 ]  and on the verso (59v)  [Canto First],  with the \softline
bracketed letters representing what Ruskin only sketched in pencil from his orthography primer, without \softline
finishing the letters in ink. At the top of the following page, halfway down on which begins the poem, \softline
Ruskin penciled  [THE ARGUMENT]  and left a space for a prose summary, like those that begin the \softline
books of  Iteriad. \par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Tipped in between the front marbled flyleaves, Wedderburn(?) added a page on which is \softline
pasted a description of MS VII clipped from }{\plain \fs24 \ul PJR}{\plain \fs24 , as was done for other manuscripts that Collingwood \softline
had already described. On this sheet, Wedderburn(?) provides information about material tipped in at \softline
the back of MS VII:  His father{\u8217\'92}s copy of {\u8216\'91}The Gipsies{\u8217\'92} & {\u8216\'91}The Exile of S{\field{\*\fldinst ADVANCE \\u 3}{\fldrslt }}t{\field{\*\fldinst ADVANCE \\d 3}{\fldrslt }} Helena,{\u8217\'92} formerly in one \softline
thin copybook have now been inserted in this book.}}