{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f230\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f231\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f233\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f234\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f235\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f236\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f237\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f238\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f250\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f251\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f253\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f254\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f255\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f256\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f257\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}
{\f258\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 \styrsid1117622 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}}{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid1117622}{\*\generator Micro
soft Word 11.0.5604;}{\info{\title The System of Date Citation}{\author  }{\operator  }{\creatim\yr2005\mo8\dy27\hr8\min57}{\revtim\yr2005\mo8\dy27\hr8\min58}{\version1}{\edmins1}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords269}{\nofchars1534}
{\*\company Southeastern Louisiana University}{\nofcharsws1800}{\vern24689}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct
\asianbrkrule\rsidroot1117622\newtblstyruls\nogrowautofit \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid1117622 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f2\fs22\insrsid1117622\charrsid1117622 The System of Date Citation
\par \tab Dates were assigned to many pieces by Ruskin himself and occasionally by his parents. (Notice is taken of dates in other, clearly later hands\emdash probably Wedderburn\rquote s or Collingwood\rquote s\emdash 
where the researcher is liable to be distracted by such docketings.) In some cases, Ruskin\rquote 
s own dates obviously specify, not when he wrote a poem, but when he fair-copied the piece for presentation or when he made the presentation itself. Hence, a New Year\rquote s poem dated by Ruskin \'93January 1, 1828\'94 may be placed at the h
ead of the chronology for 1828, because that is the best date we have, but it should be regarded as having almost certainly been drafted in late 1827.
\par \tab In a few cases, dates were assigned by Ruskin that provide no clue\emdash that, in fact, are almost certainly and even deliberately misleading\emdash concerning the original compositional dates of the pieces in question. This is the case with Ruskin
\rquote s spate of fair-copying poems in MS III, all of which he dated 9 March 1829. Any such ambiguity is discussed in the note to a given entry.
\par \tab The compositional date is given and the piece is ordered according to that date only when a datable rough draft or some other hard evidence about its composition is available. Where only the fair copy remains, one may often assume only a fe
w months, at most, to have elapsed between beginning composition and fair-copying. Parts of some longer poems such as \'93Eudosia\'94
 appear, in fact, to have been fair-copied almost as soon as Ruskin drafted them. Such assumptions are not uniformly safe, however.
\par \tab The composition of some large projects extended so long beyond the starting date assigned to their entries that, in part 1, cross-references are provided at the beginning of subsequent years, alerting the reader to carry forward those entries.
\par }}