{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff2\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f37\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f44\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f56\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f57\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f59\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f60\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f61\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f62\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f63\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}
{\f64\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \ssemihidden \styrsid11475171 endnote text;}}{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid2190609\rsid5188875\rsid6177054\rsid6246087\rsid6581898\rsid6972607
\rsid7430325\rsid7765443\rsid11475171\rsid12135654\rsid12548331\rsid13569749\rsid13837908\rsid14099984}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 11.0.5604;}{\info{\title Ruskin, John}{\author  }{\operator  }{\creatim\yr2005\mo11\dy1\hr7\min13}
{\revtim\yr2005\mo11\dy3\hr8\min34}{\version7}{\edmins77}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords525}{\nofchars2998}{\*\company Southeastern Louisiana University}{\nofcharsws3516}{\vern24689}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\viewnobound1\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel
\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot13837908\newtblstyruls\nogrowautofit \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid13837908 \f2\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid13837908 Ruskin, John. }{\i\insrsid13837908 Praeterita}{\insrsid13837908 
. Beinecke Library, Yale University, New Haven, Conn. Three diaries, 12 x 18, 14 x 18.5, and 13.5 x 18 cm, respectively, excluding }{\insrsid12548331 the modern bindings; plus }{\insrsid12548331\charrsid13773362 three folio volumes (now unbound, a}{
\insrsid12548331 lthough still separately boxed),}{\insrsid12548331\charrsid13773362  consist}{\insrsid12548331 ing}{\insrsid12548331\charrsid13773362 
 of holograph manuscript on loose sheets of foolscap, along with galleys and page proofs mounted on foolscap.}{\insrsid14099984 
\par \tab \tab }{\insrsid14099984\charrsid13773362 Th}{\insrsid14099984 is manuscript represents the larger portion of th}{\insrsid14099984\charrsid13773362 e}{\insrsid14099984  extant }{\insrsid14099984\charrsid13773362 manuscript}{\insrsid14099984  of }{
\i\insrsid14099984 Praeterita}{\insrsid14099984\charrsid13773362  }{\insrsid7430325 (}{\insrsid14099984\charrsid13773362 stray holograph sheets and marked proofs are held by the Pierpont Morgan Library, New York}{\insrsid7430325 ; and a}{
\insrsid14099984\charrsid13773362  diary notebook }{\insrsid7430325 [15 July 1885\endash 11 May 1887]}{\insrsid14099984\charrsid13773362  containing notes on the ongoing composition of }{\i\insrsid14099984\charrsid13773362 Praeterita }{
\insrsid14099984\charrsid13773362 is held by the Ruskin Library, Lan}{\insrsid7430325 caster University)}{\insrsid14099984\charrsid13773362 .}{\insrsid7430325  The Beinecke manuscript }{\insrsid14099984\charrsid13773362 
was donated to Yale University Library along with other Ruskin manuscripts by }{\insrsid7430325 <}{\insrsid14099984\charrsid13773362 Charles Goodspeed}{\insrsid7430325 >}{\insrsid14099984\charrsid13773362 
 following his disastrous house fire. Although Goodspeed for some time believed the }{\i\insrsid14099984\charrsid13773362 Praeterita}{\insrsid14099984\charrsid13773362  manuscript to have been totally destroyed, the damage appears to have been minimal.}{
\insrsid14099984 
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid7765443 {\insrsid7765443 \tab }{\i\insrsid7765443 Diaries.}{\insrsid7765443 --}{\insrsid13837908 The original diary pages of the second and third volumes}{
\insrsid7765443  may}{\insrsid13837908  have been trimmed}{\insrsid7765443  slightly}{\insrsid13837908  (the first}{\insrsid7765443  volume}{\insrsid13837908  retaining its original marbeling on the edges)}{\insrsid7765443 , and all three volumes }{
\insrsid11475171 have been}{\insrsid13837908  }{\insrsid7765443 re}{\insrsid13837908 bound in black cloth-covered boards}{\insrsid11475171 . Presumably, these alterations were made by Goodspeed, whose}{\insrsid13837908  bookplates }{\insrsid11475171 
are pasted on the inside covers, and carried out after his fire to remove scorched edges and original covers}{\insrsid13837908 .}{\insrsid11475171  A}{\insrsid7765443 ll three diaries retain original marbled endpapers, which show possible }{
\insrsid6581898 water damage and other distress, but there is no evidence that the fire or subsequent treatment sacrificed any of Ruskin's text.}{\insrsid13837908 
\par }{\insrsid7765443 \tab Pagination}{\insrsid6246087  (whether entered by hand or mechanically) was entered on rectos only, versos left unnumbered and usually free of text, except for occasional brief notes. Volume 1: 3}{\insrsid6177054  stiff}{
\insrsid6246087  endleaves (}{\insrsid6177054 
2 with brief inscription and notes) + 180 text leaves (numbered by Ruskin 1 through 180, with p. 164 erroneously given twice, p. 179 uniquely entered on a verso, and p. 180 entered on a stiff endleaf) + 2 stiff endleaves.}{\insrsid7765443 
\par }{\insrsid6246087 \tab In the first volume, the second endleaf (following the }{\insrsid6177054 first, }{\insrsid6246087 marbled endleaf}{\insrsid6177054 )}{\insrsid6246087  carries an inscription: "To Sorella / St George's day, 1887 / John Ruskin."

\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid5188875 {\insrsid12548331 \tab Ruskin wrote the text of the autobiography in successive but relatively brief daily installments, following daily diary entries pro
}{\insrsid5188875 per.
\par \tab }{\i\insrsid12548331 Folio volumes.}{\insrsid12548331 --}{\insrsid5188875 The folio volumes }{\insrsid12548331\charrsid13773362 were}{\insrsid6581898  originally}{\insrsid12548331\charrsid13773362 
 compiled and arranged by Alexander Wedderburn, whose holograph docketing appears in the manuscript}{\insrsid5188875 .}{\insrsid2190609  Presumably, Wedderburn bound the volumes in red buckram like the other Ruskin manuscripts, but these}{\insrsid6581898 
 bindings have been removed}{\insrsid12135654  and are apparently lost. T}{\insrsid6581898 he now loose sheets show water damage}{\insrsid5188875 , }{\insrsid11475171\charrsid13773362 almost certainly as}{\insrsid6581898  a result of the Goodspeed fire}{
\insrsid11475171\charrsid13773362  since some galleys show water stains that have bled through to the sheets on which they are mounted. The edges of the holograph sheets and of the proofs and/or their mounting sheets are charred, although }{
\insrsid6581898 only very occasionally deeply enough to obliterate }{\insrsid11475171\charrsid13773362 tex}{\insrsid6581898 t.}{\insrsid12135654  The charred edges have been pressed between rice paper for preservation.}{\insrsid6972607 
\par \tab From the folio manuscript itself, it is not }{\insrsid6972607\charrsid13773362 possible to determine whether any portion may have been totally destroyed in the Goodspeed fire}{\insrsid6972607 . Some accounting might be }{
\insrsid6972607\charrsid13773362 based on a comparison of the present manuscript with Wedderburn\rquote s description of }{\insrsid6972607 i}{\insrsid6972607\charrsid13773362 t at the time of binding. This description, wh
ich is included in Folio 1, presents a more detailed description than the one ultimately printed in the Library Edition.}{\insrsid6972607  I have not carried out this comparison.}{\insrsid12548331\charrsid5188875 
\par }}