{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\fswiss \fcharset0 \fprq2 Arial Unicode MS;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
}\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstpg\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs22
\tab See Provenance: {\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Sharp.}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  In one of his few remarks about provenance in his notes on \softline
his collection (PML MA 3451), F. L. Sharp comments that Joan Severn paid {\u163\'a3}105 for MS IB at \softline
Sotheby{\u8217\'92}s. This is somewhat inaccurate, according to Dearden, [private communication, but \softline
also book on Whitehouse collection?]. At the time of Margaret Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s death in 1871, Ruskin \softline
gave MS IB to his valet, F. Crawley, and it passed in turn to Crawley{\u8217\'92}s son-in-law. It next \softline
emerged in a Sotheby{\u8217\'92}s sale catalog for 3{\u8211\'96}8 December 1900 (lot 1015) but was bought \softline
privately, prior to the sale, by Arthur Severn, for {\u163\'a3}105, thus returning MS IB to Brantwood. \softline
These circumstances account for the comment in the Library Edition that {\u8220\'93}the existence of \softline
[MS IB] was not known at Brantwood till after Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s death,{\u8221\'94} and therefore was omitted from \softline
}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Poems}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  (1891) (Ruskin, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Works}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , 2:530 n. 2).\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab MS IB differs from the other manuscripts possessed by Joan Severn{\u8212\'97}MS VII, MS IX, \softline
MS X, and MS XA{\u8212\'97}which contain the major tour poems, and which were given directly to her \softline
by Ruskin. The manuscript{\u8217\'92}s charm is sufficient justification, and Joan may have known about \softline
its association with Grimm{\u8217\'92}s }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 German Popular Stories}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , illustrated by Cruikshank: in 1869, \softline
Ruskin published a preface to a new edition of this book (}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 Ruskin, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Works}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , 19:231{\u8211\'96}39), and \softline
Joan owned a copy inscribed by Ruskin (Dearden, {\u8220\'93}Haddon C. Adams Bequest{\u8221\'94}???, 315{\u8211\'96}16). \softline
Beyond this, there was an effort to gather in all manuscripts and letters at Brantwood for the \softline
Library Edition, and Joan may have particularly bridled at a former servant{\u8217\'92}s family putting a \softline
personal gift by Ruskin up for public auction. The price of {\u163\'a3}105 is notable, compared to the \softline
{\u163\'a3}260 paid for }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 twelve }{\plain \fs22 \fs22 juvenile notebooks in 1930.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab Subsequently, the manuscript was not included in the Sotheby{\u8217\'92}s sales of 1930{\u8211\'96}31, so \softline
either it was sold before or during the Brantwood dispersal sale to a local dealer and then to \softline
Sharp, or it was acquired by Sharp directly from Brantwood or from Violet Severn.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab The more intriguing story, which we can probably no longer recover, is Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s \softline
thinking in giving this boyhood production to his valet in memory of his mother. From the start, \softline
Margaret must have liked {\u8220\'93}The Puppet Show,{\u8221\'94} as, in 1831, anxious to {\u8220\'93}stop his rhyming,{\u8221\'94} she  \softline
{\u8220\'93}begged him to turn to something else to take exercise[,] copy Crookshanks [}{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 sic}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ] &c &c{\u8221\'94} \softline
(}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Ruskin Family Letters}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , 224). (It is noteworthy that the handmade book had been preserved \softline
with a professional binding sometime prior to the sales; see Description.) Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s feelings \softline
may have been mixed, however, since the manuscript also therefore represented Margaret{\u8217\'92}s \softline
preference for his obsessive copying of George Cruikshank{\u8217\'92}s illustrations for}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22  German Popular \softline
Stories}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  over his original poetic invention.}}