{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\froman \fcharset0 \fprq2 Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
}\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstpg\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs24
\tab Ruled notebook, reddish marbled paper boards, three-quarter-bound in black leather (three-quarter bound, according to the Yale catalogue); 14.5 {\u215\'d7} 23.5 cm.\par
\tab Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s own page numbering begins with the first verso, which is actually the verso of the first \softline
leaf after the front flyleaf; however, this page is pasted to the flyleaf, so that p. 1 appears to be the verso \softline
of the flyleaf. Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s numbering continues with odd numbers on versos to p. 43. Then, although no \softline
pages appear to have been removed, p. 43 is followed by p. 45, and the new numbering carries \softline
through p. 55 (with only rectos numbered after p. 49).\par
\tab With the end of Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s numbering, another hand hereafter numbers leaves in pencil on the \softline
rectos, starting with 56 and carrying through 72. Leaves 73-75 are left blank, and the later hand picks \softline
up again with 76-79. Again, a blank is left for 80, but 81 is written above a canceled  p. 106 --apparently the remnant of earlier, baffled attempt to follow Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s original system (the  106  is not in \softline
Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s hand).\par
\tab After 82, the later, editorial hand abandons numbering leaves, and the next numbering to \softline
appear is again Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s own. On what would have been 125r for the later hand, Ruskin begins \softline
numbering pages for his play  Marcolini,  pp. 1-8. Oddly, what would have been pp. 9-39 are left \softline
blank, but Ruskin begins numbering again, accurately, with p. 40 (a verso) through p. 63 (a recto). \softline
Four more unnumbered pages of the play remain, followed by seven more leaves (the last, like the first, \softline
glued to the endpaper). In  Content  below, I will refer both to Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s pagination and to that by the \softline
later hand (probably Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s).}