{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\fswiss \fcharset0 \fprq2 Arial Unicode MS;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
{\s1 \qj\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 \fs20 footnote tex;}
}\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\widowctrl\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstpg\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs22
\tab MS IA is no longer bound as a {\u8220\'93}thin folio{\u8221\'94} in {\u8220\'93}red cloth,{\u8221\'94} as described by the editors of the \softline
Library Edition (Ruskin,{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22  Works}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , 2:530), a binding doubtless similar to the red buckram covering \softline
other manuscripts assembled and bound by Alexander Wedderburn after Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s death. The \softline
binding{\u8217\'92}s loss is not significant in itself, since, as Wedderburn remarks on his still extant title \softline
page for MS IA, the collection had {\u8220\'93}been bound since the publication of the Poems in 1891{\u8221\'94} (i.e., \softline
}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Poems}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  [1891]), and the compilation appears governed by no detectable rationale, except that \softline
they are ordered roughly chronologically.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab The common ties linking these individual manuscripts are that the works are all \softline
poems{\u8212\'97}even the one prose piece, the Translation of Homer{\u8217\'92}s }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Iliad}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , can reasonably be \softline
classified as a poem{\u8212\'97}and that they were bound following publication of }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Poems}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  (1891) possibly \softline
because W. G. Collingwood had either overlooked them altogether or consulted without \softline
identifying them. Of these works that he did publish, Collingwood drew on other versions without \softline
acknowledgment of those now in MS IA. For example, in his introduction, he quotes {\u8220\'93}Time: Blank \softline
Verse{\u8221\'94} in its entirety without identifying the source, but variants such as the title and the pronoun \softline
in line 22 (see {\u8220\'93}Time: Blank Verse{\u8221\'94}: Textual Note) clearly point to MS III as his copy-text. Other \softline
works published in }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Poems}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  (1891) identifiably from sources other than the MS IA versions \softline
include. . . .\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab It is perplexing why these manuscripts were not included in MS XI, which, when \softline
Collingwood prepared his {\u8220\'93}Preliminary Note on the Original MSS. of the Poems,{\u8221\'94} consisted only \softline
of {\u8220\'93}an envelope containing loose papers, including poems; fair-copied by the author as presents, \softline
chiefly to his father; or copied by others{\u8221\'94} (}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Poems}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  [4}{\plain \fs22 \super\fs22 o}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , 1891], 1:266; }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Poems}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  (8}{\plain \fs22 \super\fs22 o}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , 1891), 1:268). \softline
Some of the MS IA manuscripts likewise are inscribed as fair copies for Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s father, \softline
including {\u8220\'93}Bosworth Field{\u8221\'94}; probably the trio {\u8220\'93}Vesuvius,{\u8221\'94} {\u8220\'93}Trafalgar,{\u8221\'94} and {\u8220\'93}The Yew{\u8221\'94} (see \softline
Content, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 e}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ); and the birthday odes. One possibility is that Collingwood had simply overlooked \softline
these items among the papers at Brantwood when researching his edition. Meanwhile, in 1889, \softline
even prior to the publication of }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Poems}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  (1891), MS XI had been bound{\u8212\'97}despite Collingwood{\u8217\'92}s \softline
description of it as an {\u8220\'93}envelope{\u8221\'94}{\u8212\'97}and the items accidentally omitted were in due course \softline
gathered up to form MS IA. (Years later, MS XI was rebound to take account of still other \softline
omissions; see MS XI: Date; and MS XI: Description).\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab Another possibility is that the miscellany in MS IA is not accidental, but reflects some \softline
matter of provenance, now unrecoverable. The seemingly appropriate gathering for these items, \softline
MS XI, was a gift by Ruskin to Alexander Wedderburn; and Collingwood{\u8217\'92}s description of MS XI in \softline
his {\u8220\'93}Preliminary Note,{\u8221\'94} which fails to take account of a binding added since he wrote the note, \softline
may indicate, not a failure to revise, but limited access. Other language might be construed as a \softline
euphemism for the fact that he knew only what Wedderburn chose to tell him about MS XI: its \softline
contents, Collingwood added, {\u8220\'93}are useful as fixing dates in some cases; }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 e.g.,}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  the New Year{\u8217\'92}s \softline
Address, 1827; and as supplying corrections or additions in other instances{\u8221\'94} (}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Poems}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  [4}{\plain \fs22 \super\fs22 o}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , 1891], \softline
1:266; }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Poems}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  [8}{\plain \fs22 \super\fs22 o}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , 1891], 1:268). (The {\u8220\'93}New Year{\u8217\'92}s Address, 1827,{\u8221\'94} is {\u8220\'93}The Sun,{\u8221\'94} which is dated \softline
in its MS XI version, and not in MS III, which Collingwood may have used for copy-text.) Similarly, \softline
was there some tension concerning ownership and use of the items in MS IA, items that \softline
Collingwood appears not to have consulted at all, and that by their nature belonged in MS XI, a \softline
collection to which he may have allowed only limited access? The suggestion is entirely \softline
speculative. It is noteworthy, however, that in the closing paragraph of the {\u8220\'93}Preliminary Note, \softline
which immediately follows the discussion of MS XI, Collingwood somewhat unnecessarily refers \softline
to the {\u8220\'93}excessively rare{\u8221\'94} }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Poems}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  (1850) along with mention of T. J. Wise. It is a reminder that of \softline
the atmosphere of the 1890s, rife with jealousies and acquisitiveness of book collectors.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab Whatever the circumstances of its compilation, MS IA was not dignified with the blue \softline
morocco treatment given to select juvenilia. Its red buckram must still have been in place when \softline
Goodspeed acquired it, since Goodspeed, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Catalogue}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  mentions the contents as {\u8220\'93}mounted and \softline
bound in a small folio cloth volume{\u8221\'94} (p. 20). This description matches that in Sotheby & Co., 
}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Catalogue of Manuscripts and Library}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  (1931), item no. II of lot 27 (p. 6), as having been {\u8220\'93}bound in \softline
cloth.{\u8221\'94} In his 4 November 1942 letter to Chauncey Tinker (see Provenance), Goodspeed refers \softline
to a {\u8220\'93}folder of Ruskin manuscripts,{\u8221\'94} not a volume, suggesting that the dealer was responsible for \softline
disassembling the collection, although he does not indicate whether the binding was removed \softline
before or after the fire. Certainly, the items of MS IA were loose when delivered to the library as \softline
(or among) {\u8220\'93}31 sheets of poems,{\u8221\'94}#FN1# and Goodspeed could not have retained two poems \softline
and sent another separately, unless he had first removed the binding. The larger items, whose \softline
edges perhaps would have been more exposed to the heat, have since then been encased in \softline
clear plastic to protect the seared paper.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab The title page, which Goodspeed attributes to Wedderburn, reads as follows: {\u8220\'93}Ruskin \softline
MS. / Early Poems. / IA / This has been bound since the publication of the Poems in 1891 / and \softline
may be added to the list of MS. given there, as IA. / See The Library Edition II.530.{\u8221\'94} This sheet, \softline
as well as the {\u8220\'93}Contents{\u8221\'94} page, measures approximately 17.5 by 30 cm., which points to the \softline
approximate size of the {\u8220\'93}small folio volume{\u8221\'94} described in Goodspeed, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Catalogue}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , although these \softline
sheets appear to have been trimmed after they were charred at the edges.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab The title page is followed by Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s table of contents, which presents two \softline
columns, one of {\u8220\'93}Contents{\u8221\'94} and the other of {\u8220\'93}Sheets{\u8221\'94} (the following transcription reproduces the \softline
original{\u8217\'92}s erratic punctuation):#FN2#\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab Contents.\ul0 \tab Sheets\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab Very early MSS.  Come on, good horse  &c.\ul0 \tab 1{\u8211\'96}3.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab Papa, what{\u8217\'92}s time, a figure or a sense.\ul0 \tab 5.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab Bosworth Field.\ul0 \tab 6.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab Vesuvius; Trafalgar; The Yew.\ul0 \tab 7-10.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab Death.\ul0 \tab 11.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab My father{\u8217\'92}s birthday. 1833.\ul0 \tab 12.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab Calais &c. (2 items)\ul0 \tab 13.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab Lille, The Meuse &c\ul0 \tab 14.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab To his father. Birthday ode 1834.\ul0 \tab 15.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  \ul0 \tab Twelve months all rolling round have past\ul0 \tab 16.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab Ode to his father 1836.\ul0 \tab 17.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab Mont Blanc.\ul0 \tab 18.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab Athens\ul0 \tab 19.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab A visit to the Hospice of St. Bernard.\ul0 \tab 20\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab A Scythian Banquet Song.\ul0 \tab 24.25.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab The Broken Chain. (Stanzas 17.26.)\ul0 \tab 26\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab Prose translation of the Iliad i. ii 1{\u8211\'96}127\ul0 \tab 28\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 It is unclear what Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s column of numbered  sheets  refers to, or why his enumeration \softline
omits 4, 21{\u8211\'96}23, and 27, since the numbers cannot be reconciled with consistent features of the \softline
individual manuscripts. Nor can Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s numbers, even subtracting the skipped numbers, \softline
be reconciled with Sotheby & Co., }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Catalogue of Manuscripts and Library}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  (1931), which \softline
describes MS IA as containing {\u8220\'93}24 pp.{\u8221\'94} One possibility is that Wedderburn was counting sheets \softline
on which items were mounted. For example, {\u8220\'93}Come on good horse{\u8221\'94} (part of {\u8220\'93}The Monastery{\u8221\'94}), \softline
mentioned in Goodspeed{\u8217\'92}s letter to Tinker, is pasted onto a sheet with a watermark partially \softline
visible, {\u8220\'93}[. . .]ETOWGOOD FINE,{\u8221\'94} the same watermark found in the paper on which {\u8220\'93}The \softline
Constellations: Northern, Some of the Zodiac, and Some of the Southern{\u8221\'94} is mounted (see \softline
Content, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 a}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ; and Content, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 b}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ). These papers cannot be proven to have belonged to MS IA as \softline
originally bound, since Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s title and contents pages are written on quite different \softline
paper, watermarked {\u8220\'93}Judicature Foolscap.{\u8221\'94} However, this style of mounting is common in the \softline
older collections of Ruskin manuscripts, as in MS XI, in which the early small poetry pamphlets \softline
are mounted onto larger sheets, which are in turn bound together. Further connecting the 
mounting sheets for {\u8220\'93}The Monastery{\u8221\'94} and {\u8220\'93}The Constellations: Northern, Some of the Zodiac, \softline
and Some of the Southern{\u8221\'94} with the original MS IA, these papers show evidence of slight \softline
charring. It is reasonable to conclude, then, that Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s column of numbers refers to \softline
mounting sheets but possibly only for the smaller items; in MS XI, for example, larger items were \softline
not mounted on sheets but attached directly to binding stubs.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab Other possible discrepancies arise in comparing Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s table of contents with the \softline
contents of MS IA as listed in the Library Edition. {\u8220\'93}The Constellations: Northern, Some of the \softline
Zodiac, and Some of the Southern,{\u8221\'94} listed in Ruskin, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Works}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , 2:530, is omitted from \softline
Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s table of contents, unless this item is comprised among very early MSS.  (see \softline
below,  Content ). Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s table also fails to mention  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The Crystal Hunter}{\plain \fs22 \fs22   (no. 188), \softline
mentioned in the }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Works}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  list, unless Wedderburn meant to include this ode under the entry  To \softline
his father. Birthday ode 1834.  Otherwise, the two lists of contents match, the one in }{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 Works}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  \softline
being ordered according to what Cook and Wedderburn judged (partly erroneously) to be the \softline
items{\u8217\'92} dates.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab Somewhat better success }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 may}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  attend comparison of the January 1943 acquisition \softline
notice in}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22  YULG }{\plain \fs22 \fs22 of  31 sheets of poems  with the numbers of sheets presently extant{\u8212\'97}but only \softline
by stretching the definition of  sheet.  Putting aside }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Papa whats time}{\plain \fs22 \fs22   and }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Bosworth Field}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ,  which \softline
Goodspeed held back, and  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Hospice}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ,  which he sent separately, thirty sheets can be counted, \softline
plus one sixteen-page (or eight-sheet) sewn booklet. If it is credible that a cataloger counted the \softline
booklet as one  sheet,  we can refer to at least one benchmark, that the present collection \softline
corresponds to what Goodspeed originally sent, when considering the possibility of lost or \softline
destroyed items.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab I think it more likely, however, that the }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 YULG}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  count of thirty-one refers, not to physical \softline
sheets, but titles of poems{\u8212\'97}i.e., the notice ought to have read  sheets of 31 poems.  One can \softline
arrive at that number by counting the individual titles in Goodspeed,}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Catalogue}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , for }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 both}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  MSS IA \softline
and X. MS X is recognizable in the }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 YULG}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  notice by the listing of one of its items, a 31 March \softline
1836 verse letter to John James Ruskin (see MS X,  Content,  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 e}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ). If one discounts this item as \softline
listed separately, as well as the poems Goodspeed held back from MS IA, one can imagine a \softline
cataloger at Yale using the Goodspeed }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Catalogue}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  cursorily to check the titles of pieces delivered \softline
to Yale. This would still tell us that the present collection largely corresponds to what Goodspeed \softline
sent, although it provides no certainty that portions of individual titles--sheets of  The Monastery  \softline
and  The Constellations,  items that can be only partially reconciled with the earlier descriptions--may not have been lost or misplaced after, rather than before, the collection arrived at Yale.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab At some point after acquiring MS IA from Goodspeed, Yale enclosed most of MS IA{\u8217\'92}s \softline
original items in a folder labeled  Early Poems IA  but sorted a few other items probably from MS \softline
IA into other, separate folders labeled  The Monastery  and  Calais  (see  Content,  }{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 a}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  and }{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 g}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , \softline
below; neither of these separate folders is listed in the Beinecke{\u8217\'92}s card catalog, unlike  Early \softline
Poems IA  and folders containing other items donated by Goodspeed). All three folders are \softline
enclosed in a box labeled  Ruskin, John, 1819{\u8211\'96}1900 / Miscellaneous Manuscripts,  along with \softline
folders devoted to other manuscripts, which are unrelated to MS IA.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab Of these manuscripts in the box that are unrelated to MS IA, some were once included in \softline
MS X, a volume that was split up like MS IA and donated by Goodspeed in 1942: nos. 109, 203, \softline
215, 256, and the  Peace Song,  and the  Zodiac Song  (see part 1, MS X). Other folders contain \softline
manuscripts also donated by Goodspeed:\par
}\pard \fs22\li1440 
{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The Laws of Fiesole}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  (Goodspeed,}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22  Catalogue}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ,  item 95; Sotheby }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Catalogue}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  1931, \softline
item VII of lot 28; }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 YULG}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  17, no. 3 [January 1943]: 59; fire damaged, and no longer  \softline
bound in blue cloth ).\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 Review of Lindsay{\u8217\'92}s }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Sketches of the Hitory of Christian Art}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  \softline
(Goodspeed,}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Catalogue}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , item 85; Sotheby }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Catalogue}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  1931, item VII of lot 27; \softline
}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 YULG}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  17, no. 3 [January 1943]: 59; fire damaged, and no longer bound in the  red 
cloth,  of which a fragment is kept in the folder). Listed along with this manuscript \softline
in }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 YULG}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  is  Lord Lindsay{\u8217\'92}s}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22  Christian Art}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , printed {\u8216\'91}reading copy,{\u8217\'92} 1847, with \softline
manuscript corrections,  a volume now cataloged separately. . . .?\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 Undated math problem (not listed in Goodspeed,}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Catalogue}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , but notated on its \softline
folder as a gift of Goodspeed in 1942, and listed in}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22  YULG }{\plain \fs22 \fs22 17, no. 3 [January \softline
1943]: 59; fire damaged).\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 Lecture V of }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The Art of England}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , corrected proofs (neither listed in Goodspeed, \softline
}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Catalogue}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , nor notated on its folder as a gift of Goodspeed, but charred and \softline
mounted on rice-paper stubs like other survivors of his fire; not mentioned in \softline
}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 YULG,}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  unless included among other Ruskiniana  donated by Goodspeed in 1944 \softline
[}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 YULG}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  19, no. 2 (October 1944): 34]; not specifically listed in the Sotheby{\u8217\'92}s \softline
catalogs, unless it was included in Sotheby }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Catalogue}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  1931, p. 7, lot 30,  Oxford \softline
Lectures ).\par
}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Roadside Songs of Tuscany}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , a folder included in the box, although not acquired \softline
from Goodspeed but from ?. Goodspeed did donate a Ruskin letter to Francesca \softline
Alexander, Brantwood, 23 March 1886 (}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 YULG}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  19, no. 2 [October 1944]: 34).\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 Map of Scandinavia, drawn by Ruskin and dated 18 September 1830, included in \softline
the box, although not acquired from Goodspeed but from ?.\par
}\pard \fs22
{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab When I follow tradition in referring to  MS IA,  it is to be understood that I intend the items \softline
as originally bound together under this designation and that these items can presently be found \softline
in Yale{\u8217\'92}s box  Miscellaneous Manuscripts --if not in the particular folder labeled  Early Poems IA.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab #FN1#}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Yale University Library Gazette}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  17, no. 3 (January 1943): 59.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab #FN2#In the original, the titles and numbers, which are written in ink, have been checked \softline
off in pencil, perhaps by Charles Goodspeed, whose notations are also in pencil. Likewise \softline
attributable to Goodspeed may be a penciled gloss {\u8220\'93}(2 items){\u8221\'94} entered next to  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Calais}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 .\par
}}