{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\fswiss \fcharset0 \fprq2 Arial Unicode MS;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
{\s1 \qj\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 \fs20 footnote tex;}
}\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\widowctrl\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstpg\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs22
Possible discrepancies exist between the items as presently disposed in the folder MS IA or \softline
elsewhere in the box  Miscellaneous Manuscripts  and their description in earlier accounts. The \softline
discrepancies, if they represent actual losses and not merely confusions arising from \softline
inadequate descriptions, might well be blamed on destruction by Goodspeed{\u8217\'92}s fire; however, \softline
with the exception of one, rather slender piece of evidence (see [{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 b}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ] below), documentation is too \softline
scanty to confirm if, when, or how the losses occurred. If Goodspeed disassembled MS IA prior \softline
to the fire, it is even possible that he had already misplaced an item or two or sold them \softline
separately, their present whereabouts unknown.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab }{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 a}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ) In the folder Early Poems IA, draft for portion of }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The Monastery}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , no. 46, single torn \softline
sheet, 12 {\u215\'d7} 20 cm; 34 lines in ink beginning  come on good horse and let us see,  from the third \softline
book of the poem, lines 26{\u8211\'96}59, as fair-copied in MS III (with minor variants and deleted lines). On \softline
verso, 12 lines in very rough pencil draft of two passages from the third book of the poem as fair-copied in MS III:  martin took his task a[s(?)] guide / [(?)]d all the women did in him confide,  \softline
which are interesting variants of lines 86{\u8211\'96}87 of fair copy; and, following a horizontal line, draft of \softline
lines 14{\u8211\'96}25 of the fair copy. On the verso, portions of the pencil draft were lost with tears at the \softline
edges, which is not the case with the ink script on the other side, Ruskin writing around the \softline
tears. Thus, the ink copy must have been written after the pencil (the lines are sequential, except \softline
for lines 86{\u8211\'96}87), and therefore, I believe, Ruskin was fair-copying in MS III as he drafted. This is \softline
one of several indications that }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The Monastery}{\plain \fs22 \fs22   draft, far from offering  the earliest example \softline
known of Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s handwriting,  was composed in 1829 like its fair copy.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab This manuscript must have been the first item in MS IA when bound since Wedderburn \softline
heads his table of contents  Very early MSS. {\u8220\'93}Come on, good horse{\u8221\'94} &c.  Goodspeed{\u8217\'92}s \softline
}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Catalogue}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 .  also lists it as the first item (79.A.1) and quotes from the manuscript extensively. \softline
Goodspeed describes the manuscript as consisting of  2 pp.,  and, if he means two sides of one \softline
sheet, then this item fully matches his description.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab As already mentioned ( Description,  above) Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s sheet is mounted onto a slightly \softline
larger sheet watermarked [(?)]ETOWGOOD FINE, which I assume to have been cut from the \softline
bound MS IA. The mounting sheet, but not the manuscript itself, shows slight evidence of \softline
charring.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab The Yale box  Miscellaneous Manuscripts  holds another folder labeled }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The Monastery}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ,  \softline
containing a 12.5 {\u215\'d7} 20-cm sheet written in pencil, 34 lines in pencil from the second book of the \softline
poem as fair-copied in MS III, lines 29{\u8211\'96}63, beginning  now must we leave poor martin there  and \softline
continuing to bottom of its verso,  you are under my protection then I say goodbye.  These lines \softline
together with those on the MS IA sheet thus add up to the Library Edition{\u8217\'92}s listing of  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The \softline
Monastery}{\plain \fs22 \fs22   versified, 80 lines  in the original MS IA (Ruskin, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Works}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , 2:530).\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab The Library Edition dates these 80 lines as 1827, but the two manuscripts suggest no \softline
reason for dating their drafts from books II or III much earlier than their 1829 fair copy in MS III, \softline
since the manuscripts are similar in paper, size, and pencil handwriting. Moreover, Ruskin \softline
appears not to have used longhand earlier than 1828 (see no. 21; see also no. 46 for further \softline
remarks on the dating of  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The Monastery}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  ).\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab The pencil draft in the separate folder must have formed part of the second item in MS IA \softline
when bound, since Goodspeed{\u8217\'92}s Catalogue. lists in second place (item 79.A.2, following the ink \softline
manuscript of  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The Monastery}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  )  4 pp. in pencil [of] a metrical transcription from Scott's \softline
}{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 Monastery}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 .  But if by  4 pp.  Goodspeed means the rectos and versos of two sheets, and if his \softline
item 79.A.2 truly consisted entirely of  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The Monastery}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ,  then one sheet is presently missing.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab Goodspeed left other evidence that he knew of a another sheet. The pencil draft, like the \softline
ink draft in the MS IA folder, is mounted on a slightly larger, charred sheet (watermark showing \softline
only a seated Brittania in an oval surmounted by a crown). On this sheet, Goodspeed wrote \softline
below the manuscript,  This }{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 (}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 with the previous pp.}{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 )}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  is a rhymed version of passages from \softline
chapter II of}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22  The Monastery}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  (first edition), vol. 1, 182[(?)] / CEG 19[(?)]  (my emphasis; part of 
the note lost with trimmed, burnt edges of the mounting sheet). Since Goodspeed apparently \softline
counted  pages  or rectos and versos of sheets, Goodspeed{\u8217\'92}s  pp.  might have referred only to \softline
the ink manuscript ( come on good horse ), which remains extant, and not to that manuscript \softline
plus another unknown one; but, if so, he would have erred in identifying both the ink manuscript \softline
and the pencil draft as versifying chapter two of Scott{\u8217\'92}s novel, for the ink manuscript is taken \softline
from chapter three.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab The problem is not clarified by comparing Goodspeed{\u8217\'92}s records with Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s. \softline
Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s table of contents included with MS IA lists three  sheets  of  Very early MSS.,  \softline
starting with  come on good horse{\u8212\'97}this entry certainly referring to the first, ink manuscript of  \softline
The Monastery  but also to two other unnamed items, whether he means manuscript sheets \softline
(recto and verso) or sheets used to mount manuscripts. Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s other two items may \softline
have been Goodspeed{\u8217\'92}s two sheets ( 4 pp. ) of pencil manuscript of  The Monastery,  again \softline
pointing to a presently missing second sheet. But, again, the Library Edition specifies  80 lines,  \softline
which are presently accountable in two manuscripts. (Goodspeed{\u8217\'92}s }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Catalogue}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  fails to mention \softline
the total number of lines in either his  2 pp.  or his  4 pp.  manuscripts, just as, annoyingly, the \softline
Library Edition fails to mention the number of sheets.)\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab Thus, in summary, inconclusive evidence points to a missing sheet of  Monastery  draft--Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s third  sheet,  or Goodspeed{\u8217\'92}s two more  pages.  To identify that missing sheet, \softline
we might look to manuscript, not of  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The Monastery}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ,  but of }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The Constellations}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 b}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  below. This \softline
item, however, raises problems of its own.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab }{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 b}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ) Also in the Yale folder labeled  The Monastery  is a 12.5 {\u215\'d7} 20-cm folded sheet, written \softline
on all four sides in pencil, beginning Orpheus and bootes now.  This is partial draft of  The \softline
Constellations,  no. 21, which survives in other copies. This manuscript is pasted onto a sheet \softline
that, like the mounting for the ink  Monastery  manuscript, is watermarked [(?)]ETOWGOOD \softline
FINE and is slightly charred.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab The Library Edition mentions}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The Constellations}{\plain \fs22 \fs22   as having been bound in MS IA following \softline
}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The Monastery}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  (Ruskin, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Works}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , 2:530), and one might suspect that here is the third item in \softline
Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s table of contents as well as Goodspeed{\u8217\'92}s additional  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Monastery}{\plain \fs22 \fs22   manuscript, \softline
which he misidentified; and, indeed, this draft of  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The Constellations}{\plain \fs22 \fs22   does physically resemble \softline
the pencil draft of  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The Monastery}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 .  But this solution founders, since, first, the folded sheet \softline
comprises four  pages,  not Goodspeed{\u8217\'92}s two; second, Goodspeed does separately itemize}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The \softline
Constellations}{\plain \fs22 \fs22   as following both the ink and the pencil }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Monastery }{\plain \fs22 \fs22  manuscripts (}{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 Cat}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ., item \softline
79.A.3). Compounding the mystery, Goodspeed describes a  6 pp.  manuscript, not a four-page \softline
folded sheet, suggesting that a single sheet (i.e.,  2 pp. ) is presently missing from this poem, as \softline
well.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s table of contents included with MS IA fails to list  The Constellations  \softline
altogether, unless he included it among the three items of  Very Early MSS. ; that is, \softline
Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s  1-3  may correspond to Goodspeed{\u8217\'92}s item 79.A.1-3 if Wedderburn counted the \softline
ink manuscript of  The Monastery  as one item, the pencil manuscript as a second, and  The \softline
Constellations  as a third. In both Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s table of contents and Goodspeed{\u8217\'92}s }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Catalogue}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , \softline
these items are followed by {\u8220\'93}Papa whats time.{\u8221\'94}  But, as already explained, Goodspeed{\u8217\'92}s page \softline
count cannot be reconciled with the extant manuscripts. Moreover, why does Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s \softline
table of contents list  Papa whats time  as a fifth item, skipping over a fourth enumeration? Could \softline
Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s 1{\u8211\'96}3  have referred only to the individual sheets of  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The Monastery}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ,  including the \softline
now missing sheet, while the skipped fourth item in his list was }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The Constellations}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ? Owing to \softline
the sketchiness of Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s manner of describing the contents of MS IA, one returns to \softline
Goodspeed{\u8217\'92}s }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Catalogue }{\plain \fs22 \fs22 as the more accurate description when MS IA was still bound, and this \softline
description clearly indicates a sheet of  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The Constellations  }{\plain \fs22 \fs22 that, like a sheet of the  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The \softline
Monastery}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , cannot presently be accounted for.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab In Viljoen{\u8217\'92}s transcription of  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The Constellations}{\plain \fs22 \fs22   (from the MS III version) among her 
papers at the Morgan Library, she points to the line  Orpheus and bootes new [}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 sic}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ]  and remarks,  \softline
Here begins version in Goodspeed ms. ; that is, the MS IA version begins at line 27 of the \softline
complete poem as fair-copied in MS III--and the manuscript does appear fragmentary--and \softline
carries through to the end. Viljoen{\u8217\'92}s gloss suggests that a sheet (perhaps containing draft of the \softline
opening 26 lines) may have been unavailable to her, as well as to us (HGVP, box F.X), which \softline
may tend to confirm that nothing has been lost or misplaced at least since MS IA arrived at Yale \softline
(see  Description  above; Viljoen{\u8217\'92}s transcription is undated, but she had been steadily \softline
transcribing Ruskin material since the late 1920s and probably examined the Goodspeed \softline
collection not long after it came to Yale in 1942).\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab As discussed in the note to no. 21, Lancaster holds two photographs (one of the front \softline
and one of the back) of another manuscript of  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The Constellations}{\plain \fs22 \fs22   different from the extant Yale \softline
manuscript, a photograph that was made in the course of compiling the Library Edition. The \softline
existence or location of the original of this manuscript is unknown, but it was clearly intermediate \softline
between the MS IA draft and the MS III fair copy: it showed a printed fair copy of the MS IA draft \softline
version, with longhand revisions that were carried into the MS III version. The lost intermediate \softline
fair copy tends to support the probable loss of  Constellations  material from MS IA, since the \softline
photograph shows  orpheus and bootes now  as line 27, proving that draft of the first 26 lines \softline
must once have existed.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab Could the photograph show the lost IA manuscript itself? The photograph reveals what \softline
looks like a binding behind the perimeter of the manuscript. If this was the  red-cloth, thin folio  of \softline
the early descriptions of MS IA, the photograph must significantly have reduced its actual size \softline
(as compared, for example, with the paper for Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s table of contents, which is larger). \softline
Even if the photograph reduced the original, however, it still fails to resolve the mystery. Instead \softline
of the presumably missing two pages, or unfolded single sheet, of  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The Constellations}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ,  the \softline
photograph shows a folded sheet (i.e., 4 pages, although the manuscript itself is unnumbered), \softline
with the poem fair-copied on 1r-v and revisions scrawled on 2r-v. The sheet appears to have \softline
been laid open flat against some sort of backing and photographed, first, from the front (showing \softline
pp. 4 and 1) and, second, from the back (showing pp. 2 and 3). Photographed in this manner, \softline
front and back, the manuscript cannot have been bound permanently along its fold. If the \softline
manuscript had been bound, the photograph would show, first on the left, the back page of an \softline
unrelated manuscript, and then on the right, the first page of  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The Constellations}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ,  followed by the \softline
inside spread of the poem. That this is not the case is proved by a revised line of the poem, \softline
which was begun on p. 3, being finished on p. 4, the page to the left of p. 1 in the photograph.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab Of course, the folded sheet shown in the photograph could have been bound afterward in \softline
MS IA. In that case, in order for Goodspeed to arrive at the six pages mentioned in his }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Catalogue}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , \softline
he would have to have counted, along with the four-page draft extant in MS IA, only the two \softline
pages of fair copy on the folded sheet in the photograph, ignoring the revisions on pp. 3{\u8211\'96}4. This \softline
seems to me improbable, since, while Goodspeed might have ignored blank pages (see, e.g., }{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 c}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  \softline
below), he would not have discounted draft revision.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab }{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 c}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ) A copy of  Papa whats time a figure or a sense  (no. 4, as reprinted and described in \softline
Burd, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Ruskin Family Letters}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , 150{\u8211\'96}51) is a 12.5 {\u215\'d7} 20-cm folded sheet. It is listed as following  \softline
}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The Constellations}{\plain \fs22 \fs22   in Goodspeed,}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Catalogue}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , item 79.A.4, and in Ruskin, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Works,}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  2:530; and the \softline
title occurs following the first entry,  Very Early MSS.,  in Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s table of contents. \softline
Goodspeed describes  2 pp. in pencil,  rather than the expected four pages, presumably \softline
because p. 1v is blank, and 2v holds only the superscription described in Burd, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Ruskin Family \softline
Letters}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , 150 (headnote). The manuscript is undamaged by fire and lies loose in the Yale folder  \softline
Early Poems IA.  \par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab }{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 d}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ) All descriptions (Goodspeed, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Catalogue,}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  item 79.B; Ruskin,}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Work}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 s, 2:530; \softline
Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s table of contents for MS IA) place  Bosworth Field  (no. 69) following }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 c}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  above. The \softline
19 {\u215\'d7} 11.5-cm fair copy is undamaged by fire and lies loose in the Yale folder  Early Poems IA.  
Like }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 c}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  above, the manuscript is a presentation copy, a folded sheet with ink fair copy on the \softline
facing inside spread. Both blank outer pages are used for addresses: on one, {\u8220\'93}For my Papa / \softline
from J. Ruskin / 1 January 1830 / Age 10{\u190\'be} years{\u8221\'94} ; on the other, {\u8220\'93}For my Papa  and, in John \softline
James{\u8217\'92}s hand,  Aged 10{\u190\'be} years / 1 Jany 1830.{\u8221\'94}  Accordingly, in their dated list for MS IA \softline
(Ruskin, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Works}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , 2:530), Cook and Wedderburn correctly ascribe the poem to late 1829--that is, \softline
composition in late 1829 for New Year{\u8217\'92}s presentation.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab }{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 e}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ) Goodspeed, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Catalogue}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , item 79.C, cites  Poems-}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 -Vesuvius}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Trafalgar}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The Yew}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  and \softline
}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Death}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 {\u8212\'97}a similar MS. to the foregoing [i.e., {\u8216\'91}Bosworth Field,{\u8217\'92} }{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 d}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  above]. 8 pp. {\u8216\'91}For [}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 sic}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ] my Papa \softline
February 8th 1830.{\u8217\'92}{\u8212\'97}{\u8216\'91}by J. Ruskin aged 11 years this day 8 Feby 1830.{\u8217\'92}  Goodspeed has \softline
associated the four poems (8 pp. total) with a cover sheet for an unnamed presentation poem, \softline
inscribed {\u8220\'93}by Ruskin  To my Papa / February 8{\field{\*\fldinst ADVANCE \\u 3}{\fldrslt }}th{\field{\*\fldinst ADVANCE \\d 3}{\fldrslt }} 1830, and annotated by his father  by J. Ruskin \softline
aged 11 years / this day / 8 Feby 1830.{\u8221\'94}  This cover sheet, like the four sheets (8 pp.) containing \softline
the poems, lies loose (and undamaged by fire) in the Yale folder  Early Poems IA.  Almost \softline
certainly, only  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Vesuvius}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ,   }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Trafalgar}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ,  and  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The Yew}{\plain \fs22 \fs22   (nos. 70{\u8211\'96}72) belong with the cover sheet, \softline
while  Death  (no. 73) should be separated from the group.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Vesuvius}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ,   }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Trafalgar}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ,  and  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The Yew}{\plain \fs22 \fs22   are fair-copied successively on both sides of three \softline
20.5 {\u215\'d7} 12.5-cm sheets identical to the cover sheet. When the folds and torn edges are matched \softline
up, the cover proves to have followed the last poem,  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The Yew}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ,  with the address on the outside. \softline
This physical evidence is confirmed independently by the February 1830 dates ascribed to }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22  \softline
Vesuvius}{\plain \fs22 \fs22   and  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Trafalgar}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ,  nos. 70{\u8211\'96}71, by Ruskin himself in their MS V copies.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab The fourth poem,  Death  (no. 73) probably does not belong to this group, since it is \softline
copied on a separate sheet of a slightly different size (19.75 {\u215\'d7} 12.5 cm), different watermark ( J \softline
WHA[(?)] / TURKE[(?)] / 18[(?)]  as compared to  HOLDSWORTH / & / PHILLIPS used for the \softline
other three poems), and unmatching horizontal folds. This copy of  Death  should be dated, \softline
rather, by its MS V copy, which Ruskin assigned to March 1830. It is true, however, that the \softline
lettering style for this presentation copy is very similar to that for the other three poems, as well \softline
as for  Bosworth Field,  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 d}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  above.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab The early editors, as so often, contribute only obfuscation. In Ruskin, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Works,}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  2:530, the \softline
editors group together  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Bosworth Field}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ,   }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Vesuvius}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ,   }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Trafalgar}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ,  and  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The Yew}{\plain \fs22 \fs22   under 1829, and \softline
they assign }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22  Death}{\plain \fs22 \fs22   alone to 1830, apparently pairing  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Death  }{\plain \fs22 \fs22 with the cover sheet. This would be \softline
the least probable grouping. The 1 January 1830 (composed 1829)  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Bosworth Field}{\plain \fs22 \fs22   manuscript \softline
has nothing to do, physically, with the other manuscripts, and the other poems are independently \softline
ascribable to 1830, not 1829.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s table of contents for MS IA does properly distinguish between}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22   Bosworth \softline
Field}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ,   }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Death}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ,  and the trio  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Vesuvius}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ,}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22    Trafalgar}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ,  and  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The Yew}{\plain \fs22 \fs22   as three separate items. His \softline
sketchy description does not mention the 8 February 1830 cover sheet, much less whether it \softline
might still have been physically attached to the trio of poems at this time. It is possible, however, \softline
that his cryptic  7{\u8211\'96}10  for  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Vesuviu}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 s,   }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Trafalgar}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ,  and  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The Yew}{\plain \fs22 \fs22   included the cover sheet to \softline
make a total of four  sheets.  \par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab }{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 f}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ) All descriptions (Goodspeed,}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Catalogue}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , item 79.D; Ruskin}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 , Works}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , 2:530; \softline
Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s table of contents for MS IA) list  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 My Father{\u8217\'92}s Birthday}{\plain \fs22 \fs22   for 1833 ( The month of \softline
May, the month of May,  no. 178), which is in the Yale folder  Early Poems IA.  Goodspeed \softline
describes the manuscript as  1{\u189\'bd} pp., 4to --i.e., two 20 {\u215\'d7} 25-cm sheets, one of them taken up by \softline
the poem on its recto and its verso, and the other devoted only to the address  To my Father / \softline
10{\field{\*\fldinst ADVANCE \\u 3}{\fldrslt }}th{\field{\*\fldinst ADVANCE \\d 3}{\fldrslt }} May 1833. The sheets, burned on the left and right edges, are enclosed in plastic.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab Burd ascribes his printing of the poem (}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Ruskin Family Letters}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ,  277-78) to RMS I (i.e., \softline
MS XI), but I have been unable to locate a copy of the poem either in that volume{\u8217\'92}s table of \softline
contents or in the volume itself. I would assume, therefore, that Burd has confused MS XI with \softline
MS IA, except that his printing shows a few slight variants from the MS IA copy. These may be \softline
errors or carry-overs from the Library Edition printing.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \ul0 \tab }{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 g}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ) The parts of Account of a}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22  Tour on the Continent}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , no. 180, as they were described in \softline
earlier accounts of MS IA, all appear to be extant, either in the folder  Early Poems IA  or \softline
elsewhere in the box  Miscellaneous Manuscripts.  In the folder  IA  are two sheets (20.2 {\u215\'d7} 25.2 \softline
cm) containing copies (perhaps draft or semifinal copy) of the first five poems (without their \softline
prose sections) of no. 180, in the order those poems appear in the fair copy, MS IX. Ruskin \softline
numbered the lines of these poems sequentially--that is, without starting his numbering anew \softline
with each poem--showing that he had established their order for the fair copy in MS IX. The first \softline
of these two sheets contains the following:\par
}\pard \fs22\li1440 
{\plain \fs22 \fs22  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Calais}{\plain \fs22 \fs22   (poem only, lines numbered by Ruskin 1{\u8211\'96}24, complete as fair-copied in \softline
MS IX; copy in John James{\u8217\'92}s hand).\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  Cassel  (poem only, untitled in manuscript, lines numbered by Ruskin 25{\u8211\'96}51, i.e., \softline
lines 1{\u8211\'96}27 as fair-copied in MS IX; copy in John James{\u8217\'92}s hand from line 25 to 42, \softline
and in Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s hand from line 43 to 51 [i.e., Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s hand starts with the \softline
ecclesiastical procession,  While far beneath in long array,  etc.).\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 A key for a code, nearly every letter of the alphabet represented by a code symbol \softline
(not employed in any known manuscript; see no. 99), at bottom of recto and in \softline
Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s hand.\par
}\pard \fs22
{\plain \fs22 \fs22 As noted, this sheet is largely in John James{\u8217\'92}s hand. It must therefore be Goodspeed, \softline
Catalogue, item 79.E,  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Calais}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 . (MS., 2 pp., 4to, in the hand of Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s father),  although the \softline
dealer is incorrect to ascribe the copy to John James entirely. By  4to,  Goodspeed means the \softline
large size of the sheet. Although only slightly darkened by fire on one edge, the sheet is enclosed \softline
in plastic.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab The second sheet of this manuscript resumes  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Cassel  }{\plain \fs22 \fs22 and includes three more poems:\par
}\pard \fs22\li1440 
{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22  Cassel}{\plain \fs22 \fs22   (poem only, lines numbered by Ruskin 52{\u8211\'96}62, i.e., lines 28{\u8211\'96}38 as fair-copied in MS IX).\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Lille  }{\plain \fs22 \fs22 (poem only, lines numbered by Ruskin 63{\u8211\'96}112, i.e., complete as fair-copied \softline
in MS IX).\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Brussels}{\plain \fs22 \fs22   (poem only, lines numbered by Ruskin 113{\u8211\'96}73, i.e., complete as fair-copied in MS IX).\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The Meuse}{\plain \fs22 \fs22   (poem only, written sideways in the margin, front side of the sheet, \softline
i.e., the side with  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Cassel}{\plain \fs22 \fs22   and part of }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22  Lille}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  ; complete as fair-copied in MS IX).\par
}\pard \fs22
{\plain \fs22 \fs22 This second sheet is entirely in Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s hand. It must be Goodspeed,}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Catalogue}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , item 79.G, \softline
from which he quotes eight lines of the poem  Lille,  and which he describes identically to item \softline
79.E above as  2 pp., 4to.  This sheet is more seriously damaged than its mate and is enclosed \softline
in plastic.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab This second sheet is what Wedderburn lists as }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Lille}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The Meuse}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  in his table of contents, \softline
while the first sheet must be represented by one of the items in the entry  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Calais}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  (2 items).  As I \softline
remarked above ( Description ), however, the penciled gloss  (2 items)  appears to be \softline
Goodspeed{\u8217\'92}s.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab In a separate folder in the Yale box and labeled  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Calais}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ,  more material from no. 180 is \softline
fair-copied on a folded sheet, 12.6 {\u215\'d7} 20.2 cm. This is Goodspeed,}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22  Catalogue}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , item 79.F ( Prose \softline
and verse-}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 -Calais, Passing the Alps, Milan Cathedral, Andernacht}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  and }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 St. Goar}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 --4 pp. ), and \softline
presumably the second of the  (2 items),  according to the notation next to  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Calais}{\plain \fs22 \fs22   in \softline
Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s table of contents. (Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s description }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Calais }{\plain \fs22 \fs22 could fit either of the two \softline
sheets starting with  Calais,  prose or verse, with the  &c.  standing for the other poems on the \softline
respective sheets. His ascription of the single digit  13  to the item(s) is as obscure as his other \softline
enumerations.) This small folded sheet escaped fire damage, as did other manuscripts of its \softline
size in IA.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab Ruskin numbered lines of poetry on this manuscript, as well. It consists of the following:\par
}\pard \fs22\li1440 
{\plain \fs22 \fs22  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Calais}{\plain \fs22 \fs22   (prose only, complete as fair-copied in MS IX).\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Passing the Alps}{\plain \fs22 \fs22   (poem; lines numbered by Ruskin 324{\u8211\'96}59; a unique copy of \softline
this poem, neither fair-copied in MS IX nor drafted in MS VIII).\par
}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22  Milan Cathedral}{\plain \fs22 \fs22   (poem; lines numbered by Ruskin 360{\u8211\'96}77; a unique copy, \softline
neither fair-copied in MS IX nor drafted in MS VIII).\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Andernacht  }{\plain \fs22 \fs22 (poem; lines numbered by Ruskin 378{\u8211\'96}403; complete as fair-copied \softline
in MS IX and printed Ruskin,}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22  Works, }{\plain \fs22 \fs22 2:354 n.{\u8212\'97}i.e., not the main copytext used for \softline
Ruskin, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Works}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , 2:353{\u8211\'96}54, which is from a later revision of  Andernacht ).\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 St. Goar}{\plain \fs22 \fs22   (poem; lines numbered by Ruskin 404{\u8211\'96}29; complete as fair-copied in \softline
MS IX and printed Ruskin, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Works,}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  2:359 n. 1--i.e., not the main copytext used for \softline
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 Ruskin, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Works}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , 2:359{\u8211\'96}60, which is from a later revision of  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 St. Goar}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  ).\par
}\pard \fs22
{\plain \fs22 \fs22 This copy of selected prose and verse--like the two sheets containing the poems  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Calais}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ,   \softline
}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Cassel}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ,   }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Lille}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ,   }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Brussels,}{\plain \fs22 \fs22   and  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The Meuse}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  --probably dates from relatively early in Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s \softline
project, no. 180, since  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Andernacht}{\plain \fs22 \fs22   and  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 St. Goar}{\plain \fs22 \fs22   were later revised, perhaps sometime in \softline
1835, for publication in }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Friendship{\u8217\'92}s Offering}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  (see note to no. 180).\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab }{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 h}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ) Goodspeed, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Catalogue}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , (item 79.H) and Ruskin, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Works}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  (2:530) list Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s 1834 \softline
birthday address to his father, no. 192, together with  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The Crystal Hunter}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ,  no. 188. \softline
Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s table of contents for MS IA is more ambiguous, but he probably means to include \softline
both poems under the entry }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 To his father}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 . Birthday ode 1834  since, in the presentation copy \softline
itself,  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The Crystal Hunter}{\plain \fs22 \fs22   begins on the verso of the prefatory address  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 My Dearest Father}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 .  (In \softline
MS VIII, however, no. 192 is headed differently as  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The Address}{\plain \fs22 \fs22   and drafted separately from no. \softline
188.)\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab Goodspeed cites  3 pp.  for this manuscript, an error that seems unaccountable except \softline
as a confusion with }{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 j}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  below, which is fair-copied on the same size paper. The 1834 poem is fair-copied on four 25 {\u215\'d7} 20-cm sheets (i.e., 8 pp.), badly charred on the top and bottom edges and \softline
sealed in plastic, and contained in the Yale folder  Early Poems IA.  The sheets are written on \softline
seven sides and numbered 1}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 {\u8211\'96}7 by Ruskin, with the final page left blank except for  To my \softline
Father.  On p. 7, there is a notation, almost obliterated by the burnt edge,  [Johns(?)] poetry / May \softline
1834. \par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab This birthday poem marks a departure from Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s earlier method of fashioning \softline
presentation copies, which was to fold a single sheet sideways to form a small (approximately \softline
12 {\u215\'d7} 20-cm) pamphlet. Here, two columns of text are written on a full sheet broadside, and two \softline
more on the verso broadside. The text on the verso is written upside-down to the text on the \softline
front, so that, when the sheet is flipped over, the text still appears right-side-up. These more \softline
spacious presentations become the rule after the mid-1830s.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab }{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 i}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 )  Twelve months all rolling round have past,  no. 164, is listed in all descriptions: \softline
Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s table of contents for MS IA; Goodspeed,}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Catalogue}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , item 79.I (as  another birthday \softline
poem to his father, 4 pp., undated ); and Ruskin, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Works}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , 2:530. The poem is untitled and \softline
undated but listed as 1831 in the Library Edition. Like other items of its size in MS IA, it was \softline
unaffected by fire.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab When this manuscript is compared against Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s ode for his father{\u8217\'92}s birthday of 1831, \softline
bound in MS XI (see  Content,  }{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 g}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ), the two manuscripts can be seen to match in every particular: \softline
they are both 20 {\u215\'d7} 12.3-cm folded sheets of light blue-green paper, display the same  \softline
copperplate  hand (Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s fancy scripts can vary, but the capital letters in these two \softline
manuscripts are clearly imitated from the same source), and even match up in their horizontal \softline
folds.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab Obviously, when the MS XI manuscript declares at the bottom of 1v that  I here do beg to \softline
give you an ensample,  the reader is meant to look for the  ensample  at the top of the folded \softline
insert{\u8212\'97}i.e., what is now the MS IA manuscript{\u8212\'97}which begins }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Twelve months}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 all rolling round \softline
have past}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 .  In his printing of the MS XI ode, Burd breaks off with  I here do beg to give you an \softline
ensample  but remarks in a note that the draft in MS VIII extends beyond this line, adding  fifty-four lines to illustrate both the comic and {\u8216\'91}flowery{\u8217\'92} styles of poetry  and that these additional lines \softline
begin  Twelve months all rolling round have past  (Burd, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Ruskin Family Letters,}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  256). The fair \softline
copy of those lines (albeit with revisions from the MS VIII version) became separated from the \softline
fair copy of the poem{\u8217\'92}s opening.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab For the relation between Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s birthday odes to his father for 1831 and 1832, and for \softline
prior confusion over dating of these odes, see nos. 118a and 164.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab }{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 j}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ) All descriptions (Goodspeed,}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Catalogu}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 e, item 79.J; Ruskin, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Works}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , 2:530; \softline
Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s table of contents for MS IA) list Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s 1836 birthday poem for his father,  \softline
Congratu--  (no. 231). Goodspeed describes this manuscript as  3 pp., 4to. --correctly, if he was \softline
counting sides of sheets, as usual. The text is written on three sides of two 20 {\u215\'d7} 25-cm sheets, \softline
with the fourth given to the address  To my Father / May 10{\field{\*\fldinst ADVANCE \\u 3}{\fldrslt }}th{\field{\*\fldinst ADVANCE \\d 3}{\fldrslt }} 1836.  Like }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 h}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  above and unlike \softline
birthday presentation poems of earlier years,  Congratu--  is written out using the full sides of \softline
sheets, not half-pages pamphlet style--only here, the text is written top to bottom, not broadside \softline
as in }{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 h}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 . With their left and right edges charred, the sheets are enclosed in plastic and contained \softline
in the folder  Early Poems IA. \par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab }{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 k}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ) All descriptions (Goodspeed,}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Catalogue}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , item 79.K; Ruskin, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Works}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , 2:530; \softline
Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s table of contents for MS IA) list  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Mont Blanc}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 .  This 19.7 {\u215\'d7} 13.2-cm sheet, written \softline
on both sides, is correctly noted in all accounts as a transcription in Margaret Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s hand. \softline
Although the Library Edition declares this  the only complete copy  (Ruskin,}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22  Works,}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  2:468), the \softline
manuscript can only be deemed longer than the MS VII version, not necessarily complete, since \softline
the writing extends top to bottom on both sides of this torn half-sheet. For speculation about the \softline
poem{\u8217\'92}s dating, see  Undatable Pieces,  B. The manuscript is not damaged by fire and lies in the \softline
folder  Early Poems IA. \par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab }{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 l}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ) All descriptions (Goodspeed,}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Catalogue}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , item 79.L; Ruskin,}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Works}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , 2:530; \softline
Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s table of contents for MS IA) list  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Athens}{\plain \fs22 \fs22   (no. 135), a 19.7 {\u215\'d7} 12.2-cm folded sheet. \softline
None of the descriptions mentions the handwriting, however, which appears to be Margaret \softline
Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s. The title and one correction are in pencil (possibly Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s own hand), the stanzas in \softline
ink (Margaret{\u8217\'92}s hand?). The copy contains only seven unnumbered stanzas of this much longer, \softline
although unfinished, poem; but, since the manuscript is written on only three sides, it may \softline
represent all that had been composed at the time of its transcription. If so, Goodspeed \softline
(}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Catalogue}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , item 79.L) and Cook and Wedderburn (Ruskin, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Works}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , 2:530) are correct to \softline
attribute this manuscript to 1831, while the entire poem should be dated 1831{\u8211\'96}32, as Cook and \softline
Wedderburn correctly note (Ruskin,}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Works}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , 2:537). For complete information on dating, see no. \softline
135. This manuscript is undamaged and lies loose in the folder  Early Poems IA. \par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab }{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 m}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ) All descriptions (Goodspeed,}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Catalogue}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , item 79.M; Ruskin, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Works}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , 2:530; \softline
Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s table of contents for MS IA) list  A Visit to the Hospice of St. Bernard  (no. 209). \softline
The manuscript consists of 12 sheets, 19.5 {\u215\'d7} 25 cm, watermarked 1834, with the pages \softline
numbered 1{\u8211\'96}24 by a hand other than Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s. The text is neatly disposed on hand-ruled lines. \softline
This fair copy, as the Library Edition remarks,  goes no further than the opening of Scene 5  \softline
(Ruskin, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Works}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , 1:505 n. 1); specifically, p. 24 ends with the phrase {\u8220\'93}torrent of the Drance, \softline
whose dark waters have worn.{\u8221\'94}  Since this phrase extends to the bottom right corner, further fair \softline
copy could have existed, although the extant draft in MS VIII continues only through some portion \softline
of scene 6. The sheets of the fair copy are charred on the left and right edges, and encased in \softline
plastic. The ink is badly faded, especially from p. 8 to the end. The sheets are contained in the \softline
folder  Early Poems IA. \par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab }{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 n}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ) All descriptions (Goodspeed,}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Catalogue}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , item 79.N; Ruskin, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Works}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , 2:530; \softline
Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s table of contents for MS IA) list  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 A Scythian Banquet Song}{\plain \fs22 \fs22   (no. 259). \softline
Goodspeed{\u8217\'92}s description of  4 pp.  must be revised to take account of fire damage. Of the  4 pp. \softline
{\u8212\'97}or two 19.5 {\u215\'d7} 25-cm sheets (one watermarked 1837) written on both sides, now in the folder  \softline
Early Poems IA {\u8212\'97}one sheet has been separated at its fold into two 19.5 {\u215\'d7} 12.5-cm sheets, so 
that the manuscript is now encased in a total of three plastic sleeves. The manuscript suffered \softline
especially intrusive charring, costing some lines at the top and bottom of the sheets, which have \softline
been trimmed in places.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab The manuscript holds only the first 16 stanzas of the 27-stanza poem, presented in the \softline
manner of }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 h}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  above{\u8212\'97}the stanzas written in two columns broadside and continued in the same \softline
style on the verso. All four sides of the original sheets are filled, suggesting that this fair copy \softline
could have once continued onto further sheets, but Goodspeed{\u8217\'92}s  4 pp.  indicates that only these \softline
two sheets were included in the bound MS IA. Wedderburn, in his table of contents, enumerates \softline
the manuscript as  24.25.,  as if it consisted of two sheets, but his meaning is obscure, since he \softline
does not so designate other manuscripts consisting of multiple sheets. The Library Edition fails \softline
to clarify whether the MS IA copy, as the editors knew it, was complete (Ruskin, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Works,}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  2:57 n.).\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab The manuscript is early enough to record a change in title, #FN01# A Scythian Banquet \softline
#FN02# Song, and the headnote differs from the published version:  The taste of the Scythians \softline
#FN03# in household furniture if we may trust to Herodotus was somewhat peculiar: their \softline
drinking cups for instance, being generally the skulls of their enemies  (Ruskin, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Works,}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  2:57). A \softline
few minor changes in wording #FN04# in the final lines of stanzas 1 and 7, respectively) are \softline
accounted for in the published text. Otherwise, the manuscript is neatly written, perhaps too neat \softline
to be the original draft that,  as appears from letters to W. H. Harrison,  was composed  in a \softline
single day, before March 1838  (Ruskin, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Works,}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  2:57 n. 1). Note that, in another letter to Harrison \softline
of 1 August 1838, Ruskin still entitles the poem a  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Drinking Song}{\plain \fs22 \fs22   }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 (Works}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , 2:69), so the MS IA \softline
copy{\u8212\'97}or at least the revisions on this copy{\u8212\'97}may date from after that time.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab }{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 o}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ) All descriptions (Goodspeed,}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Catalogue}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , item 79.O; Ruskin, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Works}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , 2:530; \softline
Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s table of contents for MS IA) list  }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 The Broken Chain}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ,  no. 245a. This is a 21 {\u215\'d7} 13.5-cm, 16-page sewn booklet, with pp. 2{\u8211\'96}10 numbered by the original hand and with pp. 11{\u8211\'96}16 left \softline
blank and uncut. This fair copy, which is in John James{\u8217\'92}s hand, contains only stanzas 17{\u8211\'96}26 of \softline
part V; however, nothing has been lost from MS IA, since Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s table of contents \softline
specifies  Stanzas 17.26, and both }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Works}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  (2:530) and Goodspeed,}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Catalogue}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , concur. The \softline
manuscript is undamaged by fire and lies loose in the folder  Early Poems IA. \par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab }{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 p}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ) The 1832 prose translation of the }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Iliad}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , misdated as 1842 by Cook and Wedderburn \softline
}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 (}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 Ruskin, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Works}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , 2:530; see no. 160a), is contained in the MS IA folder. This is a fair copy on six \softline
31.5 {\u215\'d7} 19-cm sheets; each sheet was folded once vertically, so the sheets could be assembled \softline
as a quire, forming a booklet with 16 {\u215\'d7} 19-cm pages, each page holding two vertical columns of \softline
text. The paper is hand-ruled and the text obsessively neat, resembling (except in its double-column format) the Sermon Books, MSS IIA-E.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab In its present condition, the quire has been separated into individual sheets, each sheet \softline
laid flat and enclosed in clear plastic, owing to fire damage. Thus, each sheet consists of four \softline
pages. Since neither the pages nor the sheets are numbered, the following list conjecturally \softline
orders them. \par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 The pages are identified by their first and last words:\par
}\pard \fs22\li1440 
{\plain \fs22 \fs22 Sheet 1 (p. 1,  Now tell  through  Argos far ; p. 2,  from her  through  hecatombs \softline
un ; pp. 23{\u8211\'96}24, blank).\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 Sheet 2 (p. 3,  paid  through  dark ; p. 4,  eyed  through  me that ; pp. 21{\u8211\'96}22, \softline
blank).\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 Sheet 3 (p. 5,  the value  through  much more ; p. 6,  than thee  through  the dark- \softline
; pp. 19{\u8211\'96}20, blank).\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 Sheet 4 (p. 7,  eyed  through  orator of ; p. 8,  whom  through  not me ; p. 17,  ed \softline
words  through  of ten  [end of fair copy, column left incomplete, with  127  (i.e., \softline
line 129) in pencil and in Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s hand added at end]; p. 18, blank).\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 Sheet 5 (p. 9,  and I will  through  left to me ; p. 10,  to turn  through  Greeks took ; 
p. 15,  the Greeks  through  and spoke ; p. 16,  Hear me  through  with wing ).\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 Sheet 6 (p. 11,  to Chryses  through  with the ; p. 12,  hecatomb  through  ascen- \softline
; p. 13,  ded soon  through  of the Greeks ; p. 14,  Then answered  through  ships \softline
of ).\par
}\pard \fs22
{\plain \fs22 \fs22 None of the manuscript is missing, since Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s table of contents and Ruskin, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Works, \softline
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 2:50 specify the translation as extending only to book 2, line 127. Goodspeed (}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Catalogue,}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  item \softline
79.P) describes  16 pp., double column,  an odd way of counting since he includes }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 only}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  the full \softline
double-column pages, omitting p. 17 with its single incomplete column.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 Footnotes:\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 #FN01#: {\u8220\'93}Th{\u8221\'94} crossed out by Ruskin. {\u8220\'93}A{\u8221\'94} used instead.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 #FN02#: {\u8220\'93}Drinking Song{\u8221\'94} crossed out by Ruskin. {\u8220\'93}Banquet{\u8221\'94} song used instead.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 <Th> A Scythian <Drinking Song> Banquet Song\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 #FN03#: {\u8220\'93}if we ma.{\u8221\'94} Crossed out by Ruskin.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 #FN04#: {\u8220\'93}darkness{\u8221\'94} crossed out and silence was used in its place; {\u8220\'93}waves{\u8221\'94} was crossed out \softline
breeze was used in its place.}}