{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\fswiss \fcharset0 \fprq2 Arial Unicode MS;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
{\s1 \qj\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640 \fs20 footnote tex;}
}\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\widowctrl\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstpg\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs22
\tab See Provenance: Sotheby{\u8217\'92}s 1931.\par
\tab In the aftermath of the fire that destroyed much of the library of Charles Goodspeed, MS \softline
IA was discovered and delivered to Yale, as explained in a letter of November 1942 from \softline
Goodspeed to Chauncey B. Tinker:\par
#Q#\par
\tab Yesterday in rummaging about my library I was happy to come upon a folder of Ruskin \softline
manuscripts which I knew had escaped destruction, but which I had been unable to locate. I am \softline
sending them to you to go with the others. To me they are of particular interest, and they include \softline
one piece which, with one possible exception, is I imagine the earliest example known of \softline
Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s handwriting.\par
\tab The one beginning {\u8220\'93}Come on, good horse{\u8221\'94} is particularly interesting for its reference to  \softline
{\u8220\'93}Glendarg Glen{\u8221\'94} of Scott{\u8217\'92}s {\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Monastery}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , which Ruskin mentions in the early chapters of }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Praeterita.}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  \softline
The list which goes with the manuscripts is, of course, in Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s hand. The two pieces \softline
marked with a {\u8220\'93}G{\u8221\'94} on this list I am keeping myself for the present at least.#FN1#\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 #/Q#\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 Goodspeed meant that the contents of MS IA had escaped}{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22  total }{\plain \fs22 \fs22 destruction, given that several of \softline
the items formerly bound in the collection are charred{\u8212\'97}items that, according to all descriptions, \softline
had always been included in MS IA (see Content). Indeed, charring is visible on the very items \softline
mentioned in Goodspeed{\u8217\'92}s letter{\u8212\'97}the {\u8220\'93}list . . . in Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s hand,{\u8221\'94} and the blank sheets to \softline
which {\u8220\'93}The Monastery{\u8221\'94} manuscript is affixed. Fire damage doubtless accounts for the loss of the \softline
original binding of MS IA (see Description) along with certain items contained therein (see \softline
Content, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 a}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ; and Content, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 b}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ).\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab The items that, as mentioned in his letter, Goodspeed marked {\u8220\'93}G{\u8221\'94} on Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s list \softline
(i.e., {\u8220\'93}Time: Blank Verse,{\u8221\'94} and {\u8220\'93}Bosworth Field{\u8221\'94}), he gave to the library in the following \softline
year,#FN2# and they are now included in the {\u8220\'93}Early Poems IA{\u8221\'94} folder (see Location). Another \softline
item in Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s list, {\u8220\'93}A Visit to the Hospice of St. Bernard{\u8221\'94} (i.e., {\u8220\'93}The Ascent of the St. \softline
Bernard: A Dramatic Sketch{\u8221\'94}), is notated in Goodspeed{\u8217\'92}s hand as {\u8220\'93}sent separately{\u8221\'94}; this \softline
manuscript also is present in the {\u8220\'93}Early Poems IA{\u8221\'94} folder. (Perhaps that notation explains what \softline
Goodspeed means in his letter to Tinker by {\u8220\'93}sending [the remaining MS IA items] to you to go \softline
with the others{\u8221\'94}{\u8212\'97}the  others  being the {\u8220\'93}Hospice{\u8221\'94} manuscript as well as the }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Praeterita}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  \softline
manuscript donated in 1941, and other Ruskin manuscripts purchased by Yale from Goodspeed \softline
in earlier years; see Provenance: Sotheby{\u8217\'92}s 1931.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab #FN1#Charles E. Goodspeed, Goodspeed{\u8217\'92}s Book Shop, No. 18 Beacon Street, Boston, \softline
Massachusetts, to Professor Chauncey B. Tinker, 1293 Davenport College, New Haven, \softline
Connecticut, 4 November 1942. The letter is now inside the folder for {\u8220\'93}The Monastery,{\u8221\'94} which is \softline
contained in the box {\u8220\'93}Miscellaneous Manuscripts,{\u8221\'94} the same box containing MS IA. See MS IA: \softline
Description; and MS IA: Content, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 a}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 .\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab #FN2#See }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Yale University Library Gazette}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , 18, no. 2 (October 1943): 36.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \par
}}