{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\fswiss \fcharset0 \fprq2 Arial Unicode MS;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
{\s1 \qj _26;}
{\s2 \qj\fi-720\li1440\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _25;}
{\s3 \qj\li2160\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _24;}
{\s4 \qj\li2880\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _23;}
{\s5 \qj\li3600\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _22;}
{\s6 \qj\li4320\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _21;}
{\s7 \qj\li5040\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _20;}
{\s8 \qj\li5760\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _19;}
{\s9 \qj\li6480\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _18;}
{\s10 \qj\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _17;}
{\s11 \qj\fi-720\li1440\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _16;}
{\s12 \qj\li2160\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _15;}
{\s13 \qj\li2880\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _14;}
{\s14 \qj\li3600\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _13;}
{\s15 \qj\li4320\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _12;}
{\s16 \qj\li5040\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _11;}
{\s17 \qj\li5760\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _10;}
{\s18 \qj\li6480\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _9;}
{\s19 \qj\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _8;}
{\s20 \qj\fi-720\li1440\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _7;}
{\s21 \qj\li2160\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _6;}
{\s22 \qj\li2880\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _5;}
{\s23 \qj\li3600\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _4;}
{\s24 \qj\li4320\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _3;}
{\s25 \qj\li5040\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _2;}
{\s26 \qj\li5760\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _1;}
{\s27 \qj\li6480\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _;}
{\*\cs28 \additive Default Para;}
}\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstpg\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs22
Misdated autumn 1831 into 1832 by Viljoen and by Burd, following Viljoen, in  Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s \softline
Testament.  The dates of the Sermon Books are based on the positions of rough drafts of \softline
sermons relative to other dateable material in the Red Books and on the proximity of both rough \softline
drafts and fair copies to Euclidean exercises, which are independently dateable. The \softline
conclusions in Appendix B concerning the dating of portions of the Sermon Books can be \softline
summarized as follows: A benchmark of early 1833 is established for the draft of sermon VIII in \softline
MS IVC by its position relative to mineralogy notes and its interleaving with Euclidean exercises \softline
(see nos. 173-74). If Ruskin drafted the sermons more or less sequentially and fair-copied them \softline
as he drafted (an inference supported by his fair-copying over top of erased draft in no. 170), the \softline
first six sermons would have been drafted and copied from late 1832 through early 1833, \softline
possibly wholly in early 1833. This date is confirmed by the manuscript bearing the closest \softline
physical resemblance to the Sermon Books, no. 160a, which was started in February 1832. \softline
Moreover, little other writing survives from late 1832 into 1833, suggesting that Ruskin was \softline
wholly engaged with the earlier Sermon Books (see no. 170).\par
\tab Sermons VII, IX, and X exist in draft, but no independent evidence establishes the date of \softline
those drafts; they can therefore only be assumed to be roughly contemporaneous with sermon \softline
VIII, early 1833 (see no. 175). After May 1833, Ruskin would have been distracted from working \softline
on the final third of the sermons by the family{\u8217\'92}s first Continental tour and, following their return in \softline
late September, his composition of  A Tour of the Continent.  He could have carried on with the \softline
Sermon Books during the tour itself, just as the similarly handsewn fair-copy tour diary, no. 83, \softline
was manufactured during the Lakes tour of 1830. However, for reasons discussed in the note to \softline
no. 182, early 1834 appears likelier for the final third. Alongside their fair copies in MS IIE exist \softline
geometry exercises, and Ruskin does refer elsewhere to continued work on Euclid in early 1834 \softline
(see no. 173).}