{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\fswiss \fcharset0 \fprq2 Arial Unicode MS;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
{\s1 \qj _26;}
{\s2 \qj\fi-720\li1440\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _25;}
{\s3 \qj\li2160\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _24;}
{\s4 \qj\li2880\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _23;}
{\s5 \qj\li3600\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _22;}
{\s6 \qj\li4320\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _21;}
{\s7 \qj\li5040\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _20;}
{\s8 \qj\li5760\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _19;}
{\s9 \qj\li6480\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _18;}
{\s10 \qj\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _17;}
{\s11 \qj\fi-720\li1440\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _16;}
{\s12 \qj\li2160\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _15;}
{\s13 \qj\li2880\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _14;}
{\s14 \qj\li3600\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _13;}
{\s15 \qj\li4320\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _12;}
{\s16 \qj\li5040\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _11;}
{\s17 \qj\li5760\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _10;}
{\s18 \qj\li6480\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _9;}
{\s19 \qj\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _8;}
{\s20 \qj\fi-720\li1440\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _7;}
{\s21 \qj\li2160\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _6;}
{\s22 \qj\li2880\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _5;}
{\s23 \qj\li3600\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _4;}
{\s24 \qj\li4320\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _3;}
{\s25 \qj\li5040\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _2;}
{\s26 \qj\li5760\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _1;}
{\s27 \qj\li6480\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _;}
{\*\cs28 \additive Default Para;}
}\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstpg\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs22
These handmade books, the so-called  Sermon Books,  bear no title by Ruskin except for the \softline
titles he gave to the individual sermons (a paper cover to book A reading  Sermons Written by \softline
Ruskin as a Child  is in an unknown hand, perhaps Ladd-Thomas{\u8217\'92}s). All books roughly 15.5 {\u215\'d7} \softline
9.5 cm, except for slightly larger blank covers on some books; all except IIE constructed of \softline
sheets folded in half and hand-sewn and written in black ink. MS IIE, once sewn, now consists of \softline
loose sheets containing both ink fair-copy holograph and rough draft in pencil. Beginning with 3v \softline
of IIA and continuing throughout all the booklets, the ink script is  justified --that is, a line is ruled \softline
in pencil down the right and left margins, about 1 cm from the edge, and the script is kept \softline
carefully within the lines to mimic printed text. Ruskin left no top or bottom margins.\par
{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 IIA}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 . Fifteen unnumbered leaves, with the sixteenth leaf cut away; text begins 1r, ends 15v; no \softline
cover. Despite the missing leaf, sermon 5, which is divided between IIA and IIB, reads \softline
uninterruptedly.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 IIB}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 . Twelve unnumbered leaves; text begins 1r, ends 12v; paper cover, identical to folios only \softline
slightly larger. On several leaves and the outside back cover, a penciled draft is visible, usually \softline
erased and lightly visible beneath the ink script but sometimes remaining intact and upside-down \softline
to the finished text.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 IIC}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 . Ten unnumbered leaves; text begins 1r, ends 10v; stiff blue cover, once sewn to text leaves \softline
but now loose, and larger than text leaves by 1 cm each way.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 IID}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 . Sixteen unnumbered leaves; text begins 1r, ends 16v; stiff brown cover, larger than text \softline
leaves by 1 cm each way.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 IIE}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 . Consists of loose leaves and folios, a few of which show evidence on left margins of having \softline
once been sewn, containing both fair and rough copy, as follows: \par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 (}{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 a}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ) Fair copy of sermons XVII (conclusion continued from MS IID), XVIII, XIX, and XX (beginning \softline
only), consisting of cover with four leaves. }{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 Cover}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 .--Front or back only, other half having been cut \softline
away; identical to text leaves; on recto, rough pencil geometry diagram; verso blank. }{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 Text}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 .--Ink \softline
fair-copy holograph; text begins 1r, ends 4r with 4v blank.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 (}{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 b}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ) Pencil draft, labelled by Viljoen  Sermon [XX and] XXI in rough draft,  but Ruskin himself \softline
provided no headings and no direct indication of the proper order of these pieces. Their physical \softline
characteristics are as follows (}{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 n.b.--these may need reordering eventually}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ): (}{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 b.1}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ) One leaf, recto \softline
beginning  1. draws out the duties,  verso blank. (}{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 b.2}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ) One folio, watermark 1832; 1r beginning  \softline
Deuterony [}{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 sic}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ] 30.19 ; 1v blank except a little watercolor of an amalgam of cubes, perhaps a \softline
crystal; 2r beginning  We are like the seed ; 2v, likely continuous from 2r, beginning  would obey \softline
him.  (}{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 b.3}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ) One leaf, recto beginning  Deut. 28-1,  verso blank. (}{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 b.4}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ) One folio, 1r beginning  Now \softline
what is life ; 1v, rough geometrical diagram; 2r beginning  Provision for intercourse ; 2v blank. \softline
(}{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 b.5}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ) One leaf, 1r beginning  The only difference,  1v blank except for meaningless doodles.}}