{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\froman \fcharset0 \fprq2 Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
}\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstpg\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs24
Collation\par
\tab Because MS VI is a rough-draft notebook, the sequence of its contents reveals their rough \softline
order of composition. This evidence is obscured in places by folios having been torn out, destroying \softline
many drafts both of poems known from copies elsewhere and of pieces that apparently existed only \softline
here. Fortunately, there remains in the back of MS VI Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s own index, giving us the sequence and \softline
at least the titles of the lost entries. The mutilation had already occurred when Collingwood first \softline
described the manuscript for {\plain \fs24 \ul PJR}{\plain \fs24 , and evidence suggests that Ruskin himself tore out the pages--or at \softline
least that the destruction, if not by him, occurred during the notebook{\u8217\'92}s use.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Interpretation of the index involves some speculation, since Ruskin renumbered some pages \softline
after some folios were torn out, and, later, someone else also took a hand to numbering pages; \softline
however, the use of the notebook can be broadly reconstructed as follows.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab The first 57 pages are missing (as Collingwood also remarks, although he errs in listing only one \softline
other  page  as missing elsewhere in the book: there are, in fact, three other missing folios, as discussed \softline
below). The next pages 58-85 were accurately numbered by Ruskin, though with even numbers \softline
unconventionally assigned to rectos. The versos were likely odd-numbered from the beginning, since \softline
page 57 is the last missing--i.e., the folio, pp. 56-57.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Following p. 85 (a verso), two folios (pp. 86-87 and 88-89) were completely torn out, leaving \softline
stubs to attest to their former existence. With their removal, two works were irrevocably lost--according to Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s index,  Rustic in London [p.] 87  (no. 120), and  Heat [p.] 88  (no. 121). \softline
Possibly the draft of some portion of  Iteriad [p.] 88  was lost, as well (see below). Clearly, these two \softline
folios were removed during the notebook{\u8217\'92}s use, since the index lists the extant poem  Creation  (no. \softline
129) on page 91 (a verso), a number at which one can arrive only by counting the two missing folios \softline
that fell just before the folio with  Creation. \par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab The index entry for  Creation  reads in full as  Creation 91 86,  with  86  lined up with a column \softline
consistent with other entries. This mystery may be solved two ways: As one possibility,  Creation  or a \softline
related poem may originally have been drafted on the first of the two missing folios (the former pp. 86-87), and that earlier draft or related poem has simply been lost. This possibility is supported by the \softline
extant poem opening with  The second day past oer and gloomy night,  as if an earlier poem had \softline
described the first day. As a second possibility, both of the index numbers referred to the same poem, \softline
but Ruskin corrected  91  to  86  after tearing out the two folios. Two problems arise from this \softline
explanation. First, Ruskin had to err, since the poem occurs, according to revised numbering, on the \softline
verso, page 87, not on the recto, page 86. Second,  86  appears to be the earlier index entry, not one \softline
added as a correction. Thus, the former possibility is easier to accept, but Ruskin has befuddled \softline
explanation by tearing away approximately a quarter-page from the top of the folio with the extant  \softline
Creation,  thus losing any page numbers he might have written. What is certain is that, prior to the \softline
notebook{\u8217\'92}s mutilation, the extant poem  Creation  had been indexed for p. 91; and, following the \softline
notebook{\u8217\'92}s mutilation, Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s new (visible) numbering starts on the page after  Creation --i.e., the \softline
new page 88, formerly (presumably) page 92.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab By tearing away the top of the folio holding the extant  Creation,  Ruskin also destroyed most of \softline
the first stanza of the intriguing no. 122 from its recto and, from its verso, something that preceded the \softline
fragment no. 128 ( tis not the proper measure ). On the next recto following this mutilated folio, \softline
Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s revised page numbering is visible, pp. 88-89. The index gives as its last two page numbers for  \softline
Iteriad  (though more was to be written, if not indexed, in MS VI)  88  and  92.  These entries present a 
puzzle similar to that for  Creation.  The }{\plain \fs24 \ul newly}{\plain \fs24  numbered pp. 88 and 92 do hold  Iteriad --the former \softline
even entitled  Iteriad Book 4th  and starting with line 27. That p. 88, however, according to the }{\plain \fs24 \ul old}{\plain \fs24  \softline
numbering, would have been p. 92, and the old p. 88, now removed, might well have contained  Iteriad  \softline
draft--in fact, there are very good reasons to believe it did (see note, no. 91).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Thus, while definite conclusions cannot be drawn, probabilities suggest that Ruskin stopped his \softline
indexing not long after he mutilated the notebook, and that all his index numbers refer, therefore, to his \softline
earlier numbering. That is, an earlier version of  Creation  (probably describing the  first day ) once \softline
existed on the missing p. 86; some  Iteriad  draft was lost with the removed p. 88; not long before \softline
removing pp. 86-89, Ruskin had indexed his latest  Iteriad  draft as  92  and, after the removal of 86-89, he renumbered that same p. 92 on the page itself as p. 88.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab The extant folio, pp. 88-89 (new numbering), following the torn folio holding  Creation,  would \softline
formerly have been p. 92; but it is numbered  88  with no sign of a prior erasure. It appears, then, that \softline
when Ruskin reached about this point--the composition of  Iteriad,  4:27-68--he for some reason tore \softline
out the two missing folios, started his new page numbering, and halted his indexing for  Iteriad.  \softline
(Alternatively, the mutilation and renumbering could conceivably have occurred somewhat later, when \softline
Ruskin reached about three hundred lines into book 4. This possibility will be discussed below.) This \softline
means that poems }{\plain \fs24 \ul indexed}{\plain \fs24  as falling on pages after this watershed had already been drafted; otherwise, \softline
their index entries would refer to the new page numbering, and this theory seems borne out by the \softline
disposition of the remaining pages.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Following the newly numbered pp. 88-89, yet another folio has been removed, what would \softline
have been pp. 90-91, according to the new numbering. A remaining stub attests to the folio{\u8217\'92}s existence \softline
and shows that it once held  Iteriad  draft on the recto--at least, line 95 of book 4, a line continuous \softline
with 4:69-94 at the bottom of p. 89. The next existing folio was numbered 90-91. Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s index \softline
mentions  De arte poetica [p.] 94  (no. 130), a title that is nowhere extant in MS VI. If one counts \softline
pages, including }{\plain \fs24 \ul all three}{\plain \fs24  missing folios, prior to Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s renumbering (i.e., when the second-day  \softline
Creation  poem was correctly indexed as p. 91), one will arrive at pp. 94-95 for the third missing folio. \softline
Thus,  De arte poetica  was lost with this folio, and it likely existed prior to the new page numbering--i.e., prior to the composition of  Iteriad  4:27ff., which Ruskin reached about summer 1831 (see note to \softline
no. 91), or perhaps somewhat later when he had reached 300 lines into book 4 (see below). A \softline
fragment of  De arte poetica  may, nonetheless, have been retained. At the top of the recto following \softline
the third missing folio--i.e., on what would formerly have been p. 95, now numbered p. 90--a fragment \softline
appears to have been carried over from the previous page (two stanzas extant, the first of which is \softline
incomplete). The subject of this fragment, no. 131, is consistent with  De arte poetica,  no. 130, and the \softline
two may be the same poem.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab A few other index entries point to the old numbering, before midsummer:  Bed [p.] 102,   \softline
Eternal hills [p.] 103,  and  Fun [p.] 103.  These poems--the former two untitled in draft (nos. 133-34), \softline
and the latter entitled  different style  in draft but with a refrain  Fun fun &c  (no. 136)--now fall on pp. \softline
96-97, a folio that would have been numbered pp. 102-3 prior to removal of all three missing folios. \softline
Thus, these three poems, too, likely preexisted the composition of  Iteriad  4:27ff. or 4:300ff., when the \softline
missing folios were removed. This means that these poems should not regarded as composed \softline
sequentially with the draft of  Iteriad  presently surrounding them but that they were composed earlier \softline
and the  Iteriad  draft wrapped around them. This arrangement may be confirmed by the appearance of \softline
the manuscript: on p. 96 (i.e., formerly, p. 102)  Iteriad  4:247-61 extends from the top of the page 
down to the beginning of  Bed,  which runs to the bottom of the page. At the top of p. 97 (i.e., \softline
formerly, p. 103), Ruskin squeezed in just one line of  Iteriad,  4:262, before  Eternal Hills  and  Fun  \softline
take up the remainder of the page; then  Iteriad  recommences with 4:263ff. on the next page.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Another index entry,  Joy, where is [p.] 97  (no. 132), can be made to correspond with the \softline
poem itself only by counting all three missing folios. It presently falls on p. 91; thus, it probably predates \softline
the  Iteriad  draft surrounding it--4:101ff. that follows it, and  Coming down upon Ambleside  (4:383-402) that precedes it (see below).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab The passage  Coming down upon Ambleside  is responsible for the suggestion, already \softline
mentioned, that Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s mutilation and renumbering of MS VI may have occurred somewhat later than \softline
the composition of  Iteriad  4:27-68. The  Ambleside  passage, which is placed (and perhaps written) \softline
out of sequence in the notebook, is cross-referenced by Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s own note later on,  FROM LINE \softline
375 TO LINE 401 AT PAGE NINETY SIX ; since  page ninety six  refers to the old numbering, \softline
Ruskin may not have yet removed the missing folios before composing book 4 into the 300s.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Unfortunately, the pages holding these shorter poems composed earlier than their surrounding  \softline
Iteriad  draft do not show erasure of a former page numbering. The page with  Where Is Joy  (no. 132) \softline
is unnumbered; only the recto of that folio is numbered (the new p. 90). The same is true of  Eternal \softline
Hills  and  Fun,  whose page (a verso) is unnumbered, with its recto numbered (the new p. 96). The \softline
latter page is the location of  Bed,  but there is no sign of an erasure of the former p. 102 (as  Bed  is \softline
indexed) beneath the new p. 96. One can only assume that, with the earlier numbering system, Ruskin \softline
either indexed these poems by counting his pages, without marking the pages themselves, or wrote the \softline
numbers on the pages themselves in erasable pencil.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab The composition of book 4 of  Iteriad  (new p. 88 and following) is complex; full discussion will \softline
be found in the note to no. 91. It may be generally remarked here that this part of the manuscript is \softline
given over to partly drafting, partly schematizing line arrangements of draft from elsewhere. Thus, \softline
Ruskin is by now, perhaps, starting to fair-copy  Iteriad  in MS VII. This task may partly account for \softline
the removal of the three missing folios from MS VI. If so, one wonders why Ruskin did not mutilate MS \softline
VI after having completely finished the draft of book 4, rather than toward the onset of its composition.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Starting with the first page of his new system (p. 88, holding  Iteriad  4:27-67), and not counting \softline
removed folios, Ruskin numbered rectos only with even numbers through page 100 (only failing to \softline
indicate the new p. 94, which is unnumbered). On the last of these pages,  100  is written over top of an \softline
erroneous  99,  and another hand has also numbered this latter page as 100 in pencil. This new hand \softline
numbers the next recto in pencil as 101 and continues, 101-35. Since p. 135 falls on an endpaper that \softline
does not appear part of Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s original notebook, this hand must be later--probably Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s, \softline
after the manuscript acquired its present binding.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 Content\ul0 \tab \par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab MS VI falls into fairly distinct sections. In their sequence of appearance, the contents are as \softline
follows:\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul a}{\plain \fs24 ) The sequence of the titles in the missing part of the manuscript can be reconstructed as nos. \softline
70 (p. 6), 71 (p. 8), 73 (p. 10), 74 (p. 12), 75 (p. 13), 76 (p. 21), 77(?) (p. 25, see no. 77), 92 (p. \softline
28), 93 (p. 29), 94 (p. 30), 95 (p. 31), 91 (p. 32; this is bk. 3, indexed under both  Skiddaw  and  \softline
Iteriad ), 96 (p. 37), 77(?) (p. 39, see no. 77), 97 (p. 40), 100 (p. 46), 101 (p. 47), 102 (p. 48), 91 \softline
(p. 48, some portion, presumably of book 3 or beginning of book 1), 103 (p. 49), 104 (p. 51), 105 (p. 
51), 106 (no p. no., but see no. 106), 107 (p. 52), 91 (p. 54, some portion presumably of bk. 1).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul b}{\plain \fs24 ) In the extant portion of MS VI, from p. 58, the roughly continuous record of poetry \softline
composition continues. Extant are drafts of books 1, 2, and 4 of  Iteriad,  no. 91, which are listed as \softline
follows, broken down into their parts and interspersed with shorter poems, to show their sequence: no. \softline
91 (pp. 58-74; bk. 1:176-518, and bk. 2: 1-400; probably listed as  Iteriad 54  in index), 109 (p. 75, \softline
confirmed by index,  Poesie 75 ), 110 (pp. 75-76, listed  Wind 76  in index), 91 (p. 76; bk. 2:401-26; \softline
listed as  Iteriad 76  in index), 111 (pp. 77-78, listed  Want of subject 77  in index), 112 (p. 78; listed  \softline
To dash howling  without page no. in index, unless the  79  for following entry, no. 114, is incorrectly \softline
meant to cover no. 112, as well), 113 (p. 78; through third stanza, line 5, followed by  Cont{\field{\*\fldinst ADVANCE \\u 3}{\fldrslt }}d{\field{\*\fldinst ADVANCE \\d 3}{\fldrslt }} on p 81 ; \softline
listed as  Feminine Gender 78  in index), 114 (p. 79; listed as  Doctors 79  in index), 91 (p. 79; bk. \softline
2:659-67; entitled  Conclusion of Book 2 Iteriad  on p. 79; not listed in index), 115 (pp. 79-80; not \softline
listed in index, owing either to oversight or to later insertion), 116 (p. 80; partial draft, i.e., five lines not \softline
identical but closely related to later occurence of poem), 91 (p. 80; bk. 2:668-83; not listed in index, \softline
almost certainly owing to later insertion), 113 (p. 81; remaining 4 lines of stanza 3), 116 (p. 81; full \softline
draft; listed as  Life 81  in index), 91 (p. 81, beneath rule at bottom of page; bk. 2:684-88; not listed in \softline
index), 91 (p. 82; bk. 2:427-69; listed in index as  Iteriad 82 ), 91 (p. 82, beneath rule at bottom of \softline
page; bk. 2:689-92; not listed in index), 91 (p. 83; bk. 2:470-513; continuation of index listing  Iteriad \softline
82 ), 91 (p. 83, beneath rule at bottom of page; bk. 2:693-94; not listed in index), 91 (p. 84; bk. \softline
2:514-38; continuation of index listing  Iteriad 82 ), 117 (pp. 84-85; listed as  Day of joy 84  in index), \softline
119 (p. 85; listed as  Mariners song 85  in index), [120-21 (indexed as  Rustic in london 87  and  Heat \softline
88 ), and a portion of 91 (probably bk. 2:539-658 and bk. 4:1-26, and possibly indexed as  Iteriad 88 \softline
), now lost with removed folios, i.e., old pp. 86-89], 122 (unnumbered partially torn folio, i.e., old p. \softline
90; no identifiable listing in index), 123 (unnumbered partially torn folio, i.e., old p. 90; listed as  \softline
Tempest 90  in index), 128 (unnumbered partially torn folio, i.e., old p. 91; no identifiable listing in \softline
index), 129 (unnumbered partially torn folio--i.e., old p. 91--and continuing onto following folio, new p. \softline
88; listed as  Creation 91 86  in index), 91 (new p. 88; bk. 4:27-67; possibly listed as  Iteriad 92,  i.e., \softline
old p. 92, in index), 91 (unnumbered verso of new p. 88, i.e., new p. 89; bk. 4:68), 73 (p. 88v, i.e., \softline
new p. 89; unfinished revision, indexed only by its earlier version  Death 10 ), 91 (p. 88v, i.e., new p. \softline
89; bk. 4:69-94; not indexed), [130 (indexed as  De arte poetica 94 ), and 91 (4:95, probably 95-100; \softline
not indexed), lost with removed folio, i.e. old pp. 94-95], 131 (new p. 90; possibly a remainder of no. \softline
130; not otherwise indexed), 91 (new p. 90; variant, unpublished conclusion to bk. 4), 91 (new pp. 90-91; bk. 4:383-408; entitled here  Coming down upon Ambleside  and lines unnumbered; not indexed), \softline
132 (new pp. 91-92; listed as  Joy, where is 97  in index, i.e., old p. 97), 91 (new pp. 92-96; bk. \softline
4:101-261; not indexed), 133 (new p. 96; listed in index as  Bed 102,  i.e., old p. 102), 91 (new p. 97; \softline
bk. 4:262; not indexed), 134 (new p. 97; listed as  Eternal hills 103  in index, i.e., old p. 103), 136 \softline
(new p. 97; listed as  Fun 103  in index, i.e., old p. 103), 91 (new p. 98; bk. 4:264-326 [these lines \softline
numbered differently in the draft--i.e., 248-313--than in their final fair copy, whose numbering is cited \softline
here, for the sake of clarity; some of these lines indicated in this draft only by their opening words or by \softline
a note referring to where they will be found in some other manuscript]), 91 (new pp. 99-100r, 100v, \softline
and pp. 101-5 by later hand; 4:327-696 [numbered differently in this draft--i.e., 314-704--than their \softline
final numbering in fair copy; at line 382 (i.e., Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s line 376), there is a note to pick up lines 383-408 \softline
from earlier in MS VI:  from line 375 to line 401 at page ninety six --i.e., old p. 96, now new p. 90 with \softline
the section  Coming down upon Ambleside ), 91 (pp. 107-8 in new hand;  Notes  to  Iteriad,  book 1, 
scored through in draft).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul c}{\plain \fs24 ) Pp. 130-32: index to MS VI. The index was constructed by listing letters of the alphabet \softline
equally spaced down the page; then the titles were entered in the spaces under the headings. This was \softline
done in ink, while in pencil on these pages and the following folio, 133-34, are some multiplication and \softline
addition exercises. These exercises accord with the lessons starting in 1831 that Ruskin is known to \softline
taken from Mr. Rowbotham ( sums are advancing in very good style,  Ruskin announced in January \softline
1832,  addition subtraction multiplication and division,  but he thought Rowbotham{\u8217\'92}s instruction made \softline
up of  disagreeable et ceteras  and to be  a dry, and entertainmentless thing  [}{\plain \fs24 \ul RFL}{\plain \fs24  258, 268, and see \softline
261 n. 11].) Also on p. 134 is a fragment of verse,  The [gem(?)] Oh [gemini(?) how monstrous pretty \softline
tale / Ah what a deal of trouble authors ye / Ye ladies Wayward fancie for to hit--. \par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul d}{\plain \fs24 ) Probably after the index was started on page 130, Ruskin used the preceding p. 129, \softline
working upside down and in the opposite direction to the rest of the book, for nos. 87, 88, and 90 (no. \softline
90 dated 10 September 1830). No. 90 continues from p. 129 backwards to page 126.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul e}{\plain \fs24 ) Various items are scattered throughout pages remaining in the space between }{\plain \fs24 \ul c}{\plain \fs24 -}{\plain \fs24 \ul d}{\plain \fs24  at the \softline
back of the manuscript and }{\plain \fs24 \ul a-b}{\plain \fs24  coming from the front. Reading from the back, and upside down to text \softline
coming from front of book: On p. 124, a four-stanza poem,  The Brave Hussar.  This is copied, not in \softline
Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s hand, but possibly John James{\u8217\'92}s; in any case, the poem is signed by, or attributed to,  Eliza \softline
Andrews --probably the daughter of Edward Andrews, Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s tutor, who had a child by this name.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab On p. 123, a four-line fragment ( I think that the elements are contramacious / Such a huge \softline
disposition they showed for to splash us / For if we did but wish on some day to go out / That day they \softline
were sure to kick up such a rout ). This is headed  <4> 3rd book,  no doubt referring to  Iteriad.  The \softline
passage is scored through, and apparently it was not ultimately used.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab On pp. 110-11, rough pen-and-ink sketches for the Account of a Tour of the Continent, 1833, \softline
no. 180. The first shows a Swiss cottage and bridge, and the drawing is captioned  No. 1. Head [i.e., \softline
at the head of a poem or prose selection of no. 180, as fair-copied and illustrated in MS IX]. The \softline
Swiss Cottages.  Alongside this drawing is one of a gothic fountain, captioned  No 2. Tail. Swiss \softline
Cottages.  Following these is a rocky, narrow path alongside a cliff, with a horse and rider proceeding \softline
toward a distant town; captioned,  No. 1. Splugen. Head.  Enclosed in rules, between the first two and \softline
the third drawings, is a note (but no sketches) for  No 3 head, William tell from boys own book  and  \softline
No 4. tail. Tells tower at Altorf.  On the opposite page (p. 111), Ruskin drew a precipitous waterfall \softline
from high crags, captioned  Perhaps. No. 2. Tail. The descent.  Alongside this, another sketch \softline
(including stone arches) is not captioned and too fragmentary for identification.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul f}{\plain \fs24 ) Much later in 1838(?), Ruskin used remaining blank spaces to compose no. 270. This essay \softline
begins on p. 112 and goes forward to p. 125 (working around the Eliza Andrews poem and  Iteriad  \softline
fragment in }{\plain \fs24 \ul e}{\plain \fs24 ); then, obstructed by no. 90 in }{\plain \fs24 \ul d}{\plain \fs24 , Ruskin continued the essay on available blank pages \softline
106, 108-9, 111. Ruskin numbered these pages in sequence, 1-18.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}}