{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff2\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f37\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f44\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f56\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f57\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f59\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f60\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f61\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f62\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f63\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}
{\f64\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}}{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid355399\rsid358214
\rsid1075565\rsid1126916\rsid2190131\rsid2293765\rsid2695743\rsid4221787\rsid5190002\rsid5598090\rsid6036679\rsid6253864\rsid6583870\rsid7013567\rsid7407623\rsid7799902\rsid8735566\rsid8918947\rsid9589705\rsid10379848\rsid10710038\rsid11403826
\rsid11486492\rsid11551942\rsid11753208\rsid12597544\rsid13435503\rsid13656371\rsid13899970\rsid15209620\rsid15345081\rsid15365345\rsid15475599\rsid16269298\rsid16410997\rsid16601998}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 11.0.5604;}{\info{\title PERSONS}
{\author  }{\operator  }{\creatim\yr2005\mo8\dy26\hr7\min47}{\revtim\yr2005\mo8\dy27\hr7\min20}{\version22}{\edmins254}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords881}{\nofchars5023}{\*\company Southeastern Louisiana University}{\nofcharsws5893}{\vern24689}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct
\asianbrkrule\rsidroot8735566\newtblstyruls\nogrowautofit \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid8735566 \f2\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid8735566 <head1>GEORGE ALLEN (1849-}{\insrsid2293765 1907}{\insrsid8735566 )
\par }{\insrsid11486492 \tab }{\insrsid8735566 Ruskin's}{\insrsid2293765  personal assistant from ????, and his}{\insrsid8735566  publisher from }{\insrsid11486492 1871}{\insrsid8735566 
. Ruskin first encountered Allen in 1854 at the Working Men's College. Allen was pursuing art studies }{\insrsid11486492 there }{\insrsid8735566 
to augment his developing reputation as a skilled joiner and carpenter, and his abilities sufficiently impressed Ruskin(?) that he was picked as an assistant drawing master....}{\insrsid11486492  His skill in engraving. . . .}{\insrsid8735566 
 Allen became Ruskin's personal assistant in 18??, turning down offers from William Morris as a founding member}{\insrsid11486492  for furniture design in}{\insrsid8735566  Morris, Marshall, Faulkner and Company,}{\insrsid11486492 
 and ??? for care of furnishings in the Queen's household}{\insrsid8735566 .
\par }{\insrsid11486492 \tab Allen's}{\insrsid16269298  devotion to his "Master" (upheld despite periodic strains caused by Ruskin's violent outbursts in times of illness) combined well with his}{\insrsid11486492  shrewd business sense }{\insrsid16269298 
to enable him to realize Ruskin's }{\insrsid11486492 experiments in publishing and bookselling}{\insrsid16269298  while remaining profitable. Ruskin aimed to bypass the}{\insrsid355399  complex}{\insrsid16269298  system of discounts that }{\insrsid355399 
gr}{\insrsid15345081 owing }{\insrsid355399 up}{\insrsid16269298  between publishers and}{\insrsid355399  trade}{\insrsid15345081  as a result of cheaper printing methods, widening of the reading public (includ
ing demands for "self-culture" by the working classes), and competing influences of the subscription libraries and}{\insrsid16269298  booksellers}{\insrsid10379848 . A}{\insrsid15345081 ll}{\insrsid10379848  this}{\insrsid15345081  encourag}{
\insrsid10379848 ed}{\insrsid2190131  dissemination of}{\insrsid15345081  "cheap classics"}{\insrsid16269298  without regard}{\insrsid2190131 , in Ruskin's}{\insrsid10379848  paternalistic}{\insrsid2190131  view,}{\insrsid16269298  for}{\insrsid10379848 
 felt sacrifice in obtaining value both in content and the physical quality of a book, or for}{\insrsid16269298  fair royalties}{\insrsid15345081  to authors supporting new writing}{\insrsid1075565  (although}{\insrsid5598090  later,}{\insrsid1075565 
 by 1882}{\insrsid5598090 ,}{\insrsid1075565  Allen eased Ruskin's}{\insrsid5598090  resistance to inexpensive editions of his works).}{\insrsid15345081  Ruskin}{\insrsid16269298  proposed establishing the same }{\insrsid10379848 consistent and open}{
\insrsid16269298  prices for trade and public}{\insrsid10379848  alike}{\insrsid16269298 , providing fair return to both author and publisher}{\insrsid6253864  (Allen agreed with Ruskin for a third of profits}{\insrsid16601998 
, which continued after Ruskin's death}{\insrsid6253864 )}{\insrsid16269298  while exposing}{\insrsid355399  any additional price added by a middleman.}{\insrsid2190131 
\par \tab }{\insrsid355399 Ruskin laid out these principles in }{\i\insrsid355399 Fors Clavigera}{\insrsid355399  (}{\insrsid2190131 [}{\insrsid355399 1871-}{\insrsid2190131 ]; see, e.g., }{\insrsid2293765 Ruskin, }{\i\insrsid2190131 Works}{\insrsid7407623 
 ???}{\insrsid355399 )}{\insrsid2190131 , inaugurating}{\insrsid355399  them with the monthly publication of those pamphlets}{\insrsid11753208  as well as with the <Works Series>}{\insrsid355399 .}{\insrsid7407623 
 Allen printed and distributed the pamphlets from his home in Kent, first at Heathfield Cottage, Keston, and then, from 1874 as the business grew, at Sunnyside, Orpington--the familiar imprint for Ruskin's p}{\insrsid355399 art}{\insrsid7407623 -}{
\insrsid355399 publication}{\insrsid7407623 s throughout the 1870s and 1880s}{\insrsid355399 .}{\insrsid1075565  At first, t}{\insrsid12597544 he pastoral}{\insrsid4221787  village}{\insrsid12597544  setting}{\insrsid4221787 
, while charming to (both?) Allen's and Ruskin's sense of the place of handcraftsmanship in English life, caused practical difficulties that the cosmopolitan London book trade was swift to ridicule.}{\insrsid1075565  But...}{\insrsid4221787 
\par \tab Through contentious negotiations with Smith and Elder, Ruskin's publisher through 1871 (including, initially, joint responsibility with Allen for }{\i\insrsid4221787 Fors}{\insrsid4221787 
), Ruskin finally obtained in 18?? copyright of his earlier works and, in 1878, purchase of engraved plates. For Ruskin, the relations with Smith and Elder were painfully bound up with relations with his father, who}{\insrsid10379848  until his death}{
\insrsid4221787  had managed}{\insrsid10379848  his son's publishing affairs.}{\insrsid1075565  Despite bitter emotions that colored the negotiations, the decision to transfer all his titles to Allen proved sound.}{\insrsid5598090 
\par }{\insrsid355399 \tab Allen's alertness to the market assured that}{\insrsid8918947  steady sales of Ruskin's works benefited both himself, who by terms of an 1887 agreement reaped a third of profits, and}{\insrsid11486492  the <Brantwood circle>}{
\insrsid8918947 , who received....}{\insrsid355399  Allen frequently complained about....}{\insrsid11486492  His early skill in engraving drew him to producing fin
e editions, although he was keenly conscious the full spectrum of the market for Ruskin's works.}{\insrsid5598090 
 Attention to both ends of the market decided the dual format of works important to the publication history of Ruskin's juvenile work, which Allen exploited in 
order to expand his list while operating under the unusual condition of serving, at first, as a single-author publisher. }{\insrsid15209620 <}{\i\insrsid5598090 Poems}{\insrsid15209620 > }{\insrsid5598090 (}{\insrsid1126916 1891}{\insrsid5598090 ), }{
\insrsid15209620 <}{\i\insrsid13899970 Three Letters and an Essay on}{\i\insrsid15209620  Literature}{\insrsid15209620 > (}{\insrsid13899970\charrsid15209620 1893}{\insrsid13899970 ), }{\insrsid15209620 <}{\i\insrsid5598090\charrsid13899970 Letters}{
\i\insrsid5598090  to a College Friend}{\insrsid15209620 > }{\insrsid13899970 (1894}{\insrsid5598090 )}{\insrsid13899970 , }{\insrsid15209620 <}{\i\insrsid13899970 Poetry of Architecture}{\insrsid15209620 > }{\insrsid13899970 (18??
) were all issued in both fine and cheap editions.}{\insrsid16410997  }{\insrsid15209620 Before his death in 1907, Allen oversaw production and release of several volumes of the }{\insrsid16410997 <}{\insrsid15209620 Library Edition}{\insrsid16410997 >}{
\insrsid15209620  (1903-12)}{\insrsid16410997 , the }{\insrsid15209620 first two volumes containing }{\i\insrsid15209620 Early Prose}{\insrsid15209620  (vol. 1 []) and }{\i\insrsid15209620 Poems}{\insrsid15209620  (vol. 2 [1903]) }{\insrsid16410997 and 
incorporating Allen's }{\insrsid2695743 and Collingwood's }{\insrsid16410997 earlier editions of}{\insrsid2695743  early works.}{\insrsid16410997  }{\insrsid15209620\charrsid15209620 
\par }{\insrsid5598090 \tab }{\insrsid6036679 Fine editions were limited and printed on handmade paper....}{\insrsid11486492 
\par }{\insrsid13899970 \tab Cheap editions were inaugurated}{\insrsid6036679  in 1882}{\insrsid13899970  with}{\insrsid6036679  the}{\insrsid13899970  Uniform Edition in dark green or reddish brown cloth}{\insrsid6036679 , ? by ? inches,}{\insrsid13899970 
 with gilt lettering on the spine.}{\insrsid6036679  A typical price was 5 shillings, up to 7/6 for longer or illustrated works.}{\insrsid11551942  Starting in ????, reissue was frequently from stereotype.}{\insrsid13899970 
\par \tab }{\insrsid9589705 The concern became }{\insrsid13899970 George Allen}{\insrsid9589705  and Sons in 1901, with Allen's children <William>, <Hugh>, and <Grace> (long active in the business) joining the board.}{\insrsid13899970  }{\insrsid9589705 
With Ruskin sales slowing, Allen sought to expand his list with other offers; however, after his death in 1907, slow sales??? of the Library Edition and the inadequate list??? apart from Rus
kin proved a drag on the business. Efforts to expand occurred in 1909 with acquisition of the publishing branch of Bemrose and Sons and, in 1911, of Swan Sonnenschein & Company, creating George Allen & Company, Ltd. The collapsed in 1913, however, and wen
t into receivership under Stanley Unwin (), who formed George Allen &}{\insrsid13899970  Unwin}{\insrsid9589705  in 1914. That company}{\insrsid13899970  continued for a while }{\insrsid13656371 t}{\insrsid13899970 
o issue remaining unbound stock in the Uniform Edition, sometimes with}{\insrsid13656371  George Allen &}{\insrsid13899970  Unwin}{\insrsid13656371  imprinted}{\insrsid13899970  on the spine}{\insrsid11551942 , but high costs and u
ncertainties of the market in the war years prevented new reprints of Ruskin}{\insrsid13899970 .}{\insrsid16601998 
\par \tab }{\insrsid11551942 Unwin }{\insrsid16601998 later declared }{\insrsid11551942 he was hampered by Ruskin's }{\insrsid16601998 <}{\insrsid11551942 literary trustees}{\insrsid16601998 >}{\insrsid11551942 
, whose ownership of plates and blocks constrained him to }{\insrsid16601998 a commission basis for reprints. By terms of Ruskin's will, <Alexander Wedderburn>, one of the trustees, maintained control over sales of Ruskin's works.}{\insrsid5598090 
\par }{\insrsid8735566 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid11403826 {\insrsid6253864 See Dawson, }{\i\insrsid6253864 People's Ruskin,}{\insrsid11551942  1-14;}{\insrsid6253864 
 Dearden, "Library Edition of the Works of John Ruskin," 52}{\insrsid15475599 -53}{\insrsid6253864 ;}{\insrsid11403826 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid8735566 {\insrsid11403826 
\par }}