MS IX
     Yale (cataloged as  Poems 1833 ). Date of manuscript’s composition 1833-
34.

Provenance
     Sotheby’s 1930. On the first leaf following the front flyleaf of MS IX,
Joan Severn inscribed  Joan R. Severn / from Di Pa,  this manuscript being one
of the those associated with touring that Ruskin set aside for her (see
Introduction,  Provenance of the Major Manuscripts,  Sotheby’s 1930). Opposite
this inscription is inscribed in pencil  Mr Ruskin  in John James’s(?) hand,
followed by a line I cannot decipher.

Description
     Ruled notebook; brown marbled boards and endpapers, three-quarter-bound
in bluish-green leather; 20.5 × 16.5 cm. Someone--probably Wedderburn--has
numbered leaves on their rectos, starting, oddly, with the second leaf
following the two front flyleaves; i.e., the inside first flyleaf has the
inscription by John James mentioned above, the second flyleaf has the
inscription by Joan Severn mentioned above, and then there is another
unnumbered leaf before the numbering begins on the following leaf. Despite
this irregularity, I employ this numbering for the  Content  below.
     In the front of the notebook, eleven leaves (i.e., the first unnumbered
leaf following the inscribed flyleaves, plus numbered leaves 1-10) have had
their right edges cut away--to about one cm. deep--but leaving a small tab on
the edge of each leaf. On these marginal tabs, someone has printed an
alphabet, prepatory for an alphabetical directory of some kind. These leaves
were never used, however, and it is impossible to say whether the
alphabetizing was done by Ruskin or by someone who had prepared the notebook
before him. Possibly, Ruskin meant to provide an alphbetized table of contents
at the start of his poem. (He did compile an index at the back of MS VI,
although that index was probably for his personal use, since MS VI was a rough
copy notebook.) As it turned out, Ruskin failed to prepare even a title page
for MS IX, and the illustrated poem and prose sequence is untitled.
     It is also possible that, since Margaret Ruskin’s writing is the first
to appear in the manuscript ( Content,  d), she made the alphabetical tabs for
some use of her own. The paper is watermarked  HAGAR & CO / 1822,  so the
notebook might have lain unused in the household for a long time. What seems
least likely is that someone would have subjected the manuscript to this
treatment after Ruskin used the notebook for his poetry--or, for Ruskin’s
part, that he would have started his project several leaves into the notebook,
leaving all those blank leaves to be exploited later.
     Tipped in at the front, attached to the marbled fly leaf, Wedderburn
added a sheet describing MS IX. Like his sheets tipped into the front of many
Red Books and other major manuscripts, he pasted onto it a clipping from PJR
describing the MS IX, and commented on any additions or rebinding since
Collingwood’s 1891 edition. In this case, where Collingwood summarized that
 pp. 1-21 are prepared for alphabetical index,  while  pp. 22-23 contain
quotations in Mrs. J. J. Ruskin’s handwriting,  and  pp. 25-111, about a third
of the book, were filled with prose and verse . . . with inserted drawings --
i.e., the so-called Account of a Tour on the Continent--Wedderburn added the
note,  most of the blank pages have since been removed & the book replaced in
its old cover.  This ranks among the more damaging decisions about the
treatment of the early manuscripts. With blank leaves removed, we are
prevented from seeing clearly where Ruskin might have left gaps in his fair-
copying, intending to insert a passage or a drawing later--a practice that
remains obvious in the extant arrangement. One wonders, too, whether the
leaves were entirely blank; even a roughly penciled notation might have
provided clues about Ruskin’s plan.
     Reconstruction of the original manuscript is rendered uncertain, since
one cannot be absolutely certain how many leaves were removed. Collingwood’s
page counts in PJR accurately describe MS IX in its present condition. This
means that Collingwood skipped over blank leaves when numbering the
manuscript--a practice consistent with his treatment of blank leaves in MS
IVD--and these unnumbered leaves would have been the  pages  removed by
Wedderburn. Stubs do remain visible, but one cannot be confident that stubs
would show for all the removed leaves, especially if the manuscript was
removed and then rebound in its cover. In  Content  below, I have noted where
a stub remains visible, which one may interpret as a leaf (i.e., two pages)
that Ruskin presumably intended to fill with writing or drawing. One must bear
in mind, however, that not all stubs may be visible.
     The remaining stubs of the removed leaves should not be confused with
stubs of a different paper--paper that is not ruled, as the original paper is,
and protruding slightly beyond the original marbled edges. These stubs appear
to have been inserted as part of the rebinding process, to which Wedderburn
alludes in his tipped-in sheet. As irrelevant to the notebook Ruskin used,
these rebinding stubs are not listed in  Content  below. Only the stubs are
mentioned of paper that clearly belonged to the original notebook.

     Content
     a) John James’s inscription (inside front flyleaf).
     b) Joan Severn’s inscription (second front flyleaf).
     c) Tabbed and alphabetized pages (unnumbered leaf plus folios 1-10r).
     d) Margaret’s copy of the  Advice of the mother of the Chevalier Bayard
on his leaving home to commence the profession of arms,  extracted from ???
(10-11r). This is followed by a quotation from I Chronicles 28:9 (11r). The
advice to the chevalier is as follows:
     Peter, my friend, you are going into the service of a noble Prince; as
     much as a mother can command her child, do I command you three things,
     which, if you do, rest assured they will enable you to pass through this
     present life with honour. The first is, that above all things you love
     and serve God, without offending Him in any way, if it be possible to
     you. For it is He who gave us life, it is He who will save us, and
     without Him and His grace we should not have the power to perform a
     single good work in this world. Recommend yourself to Him every morning
     and evening and He will give you aid. The second is, that you be mild
     and courteous to all Gentlemen, casting away pride. Be humble and
     obliging to everybody. Be not a slanderer or a liar. Keep yourself
     temperate in regard to eating & drinking. Avoid envy it is a mean vice.
     Be neither a flatterer nor a tale-bearer, for people of this description
     do not usually attain to any high degree of excellence. Be loyal in word
     and deed. Keep your promises. Succour poor widows and orphans, and God
     will reward you. The third is, that you be bountiful of the goods that
     God shall give you to the poor and needy, for to give for His honours
     sake never made any man poor; and believe me, my child, the alms that
     you shall dispense will greatly profit both your body and soul.
(See no. 35 for Ruskin’s treatment of the Chevalier Bayard, who is depicted at
the bottom of a page mainly devoted to Denis of France. The chevalier lies
beneath a tree and supports upright the cruciform hilt of his sword.)
     The verse from Chronicles, in Margaret’s copy, reads as follows:
     And thou, Solomon my son, know thou the God of thy father, and serve him
     with a perfect heart and with a willing mind: for the Lord searcheth all
     hearts, and understandeth all the imaginations of the thoughts: if thou
     seek Him, He will be found of thee; but if thou forsake Him, He will
     cast thee off forever. 28 1st Chronicles 9thv
     e) Blank page (11v), followed by stub for one removed leaf. This might
have been a leaf destined for Ruskin’s title page, if he planned one. Another
possible place would have been the two front flyleaves.
     (f) Fair copy with accompanying illustrations (in imitation of
engravings) of Account of a Tour on the Continent, no. 180. Text written in
 copperplate  hand, and illustrations drawn on separate squares of paper and
pasted into place. Not all the  Tour,  as drafted in MS VIII and elsewhere,
was fair-copied. The Library Edition follows the poem, so far as it was fair-
copied and reconstructs the remainder (see Works 2:340 n.).
     Here are the contents of the Account listed in sequence, with citations
from the Library Edition matched with the manuscript page numbers:
     Drawing (Works, 2:341 n. 1) (12r),  Calais  (poem, Works, 2:341) (12r-
12v), drawing (Works, 2:341 n. 3) (12v).
     Drawing (Works, 2:341 n. 4) (13r), untitled prose section on Calais
(Works, 2:341-42) (13r-14r), drawing (Works, 2:342 n. 2) (14r).
     Drawing (Works, 2:342 n. 3) (14v),  Cassel  (poem, Works, 2:342-43)
(14v-15v), drawing (Works, 2:343 n. 1) (15v).
     Drawing (Works, 2:343 n. 2) (16r), untitled prose section on Cassel
(Works, 2:343-44) (16r-17r), drawing (Works, 2:344 n. 1) (17r).
     Drawing (Works, 2:344 n. 2) (17v);  Lille  (Works, poem, 2:344-45) (17v-
18v); no drawing at end of poem, but small space available (18v).
     Drawing (Works, 2:345 n. 2; note that the Library Edition gives the
impression that this drawing closes the poem, when in fact it heads the prose
section) (19r); untitled prose section on Lille (Works, 2:345) (19r-19v); no
drawing at end of prose section, but small space available (19v).
     No drawing at head of poem, but space definitely left for that purpose
(20r);  Brussels  (poem, Works, 2:346-47) (20r-21v); drawing (Works, 2:347 n.
2, first sketch listed) (21v).
     Stub (between 21v and 22r).
     Drawing (Works, 2:347 n. 2, second drawing listed) (22r), untitled prose
section on Brussels (Works, 2:347-48) (22r-24r), no drawing at end of prose
section, but ample space available (24r).
     No drawing at head of poem, but space definitely left for that purpose
(24v);  The Meuse  (Works, poem, 2:348-49) (24v-25v); drawing (Works, 2:349 n.
1), positioned between last two lines of  The Meuse  (poem) and beginning of
prose section (25v); untitled prose section on the Meuse (Works, 2:349-50)
(25v-26r); drawing, not at end of prose passage on 26v, where a small space is
available, but pasted broadside and taking up whole of 27r (Works, 2:350 n. 2,
first drawing listed).
     Blank page (27v); drawing (Works, 2:350 n. 2, second drawing listed)
(28r);  Aix la Chapelle  (Works, prose, 2:350-51) (28r-30r).
     Nearly full-page blank space definitely left for drawing, following last
few words of  Aix la Chapelle  (prose) and preceding the two opening lines of
 Cologne  (30r);  Cologne  (poem, Works, 2:351) (30r-31r, with the
deliberately erased gap described in Works, 2:351 n. 2).
     Drawing, between last line only of  Cologne  (poem) and beginning of
prose section (Works, 2:351 n. 3) (31r); untitled prose section on Cologne
(Works, 2:351-53) (31r-33v); no drawing following prose section, but a small
space available (33v). One of these leaves (31r-v) has at some point been cut
away from its stub; then, the loose leaf cut horizontally between the drawing
and the prose at the bottom; and, finally, the two pieces have been taped back
into place again, reattached to the stub. The piece with the drawing has  B 
written at the side. See 37r-v, below.
     Stub (between 33v and 34r).
     No drawing, although large space definitely allowed (34r);  Andernacht 
(poem, Works, 2:354 n., i.e., not 2:353-54) (34r-34v); drawing, at top of page
following poem and preceding prose, which is described in Works as somewhat
detached from the poem, but which certainly depicts Andernach tower (Works,
2:354 n. 2) (35r); untitled prose section on Andernach (Works, 2:354-55) (35r-
36v); no drawing at end of prose section, but ample space available (36v).
     Drawing (Works, 2:355 n. 1, and page reproduced 356 opp.) (37r);
 Ehrenbreitstein  (Works, poem, 2:355-58) (37r-39v); drawing (2:358 n. 1)
(39v). One leaf (37r-v) has been removed from its stub and then reattached
with tape. Since the tape is the same as that used to reattach 31r-v, and
since this entire leaf is reproduced in Works, one suspects that the leaf was
detached so it could be photographed for the Library Edition. It is equally
possible, however, that the editors took advantage of an existing separation.
     No drawing, although nearly full-page space definitely allowed (40r);
untitled prose section on Ehrenbreitstein (Works, 2:358) (40r-41r); no drawing
at end of prose passage, and insufficient space available for one (41r).
     No drawing, although space definitely allowed (41v); untitled poem on
St. Goar (Works, 2:359 n. 1, i.e., not 2:359-60) (41v-42r); no drawing at end
of poem, but small space available (42r).
     No drawing, although space definitely allowed (42r); untitled prose
passage on St. Goar (Works, 2:360-61)(42v-43r); no drawing at end of prose
passage, and only a very small space available (43r).
     Drawing (Works, 2:360 n. 1, cited erroneously as following poem on St.
Goar) (43v); untitled poem on Heidelberg (Works, 2:361-64) (43v-46v); no
drawing, but space allowed on two-page spread (45v-46r, on each page of which
the poetry extends only halfway down, lines 65-76 on 45v, and lines 77-86 on
46r); no drawing, and no space available, at end of poem (46v).
     Blank leaf (47r-47v); no drawing, although space definitely allowed
(48r); beginning of untitled prose section on Heidelberg (Works, 2:364 [ Most
beautiful . . . granite, sometimes ]).
     Blank page (48v).
     Stub (between 48v and 49r).
     Drawing, pasted in middle of page (Works, 2:364 n. 1 [no. 1]) (49r).
     Blank page (49v).
     Drawing, pasted in middle of page (Works, 2:364 n. 1 [no. 2]) (50r).
     Blank page (50v).
     Drawing, pasted broadside in middle of page (Works, 2:364 n. 1 [no. 3])
(51r).
     Blank page (51v).
     Drawing, pasted in middle of page (Works, 2:364 n. 1 [no. 4]) (52r).
     Blank page (52v).
     Two drawings (Works, 2:364 n. 1 [nos. 5a-b]), no space available for
text.
     Blank page (53v).
     Stub (between 53v and 54r).
     Drawing, pasted in middle of page (Works, 2:364 n. 1 [no. 6]) (54r).
     Blank page (54v).
     Drawing, pasted in middle of page (Works, 2:364 n. 1 [no. 7]) (55r).
     Blank pages (55v-74r).