MS VII
     Yale (cataloged as  Iteriad &c ). Date of composition probably 1831-32
for fair copy of  Iteriad  (draft begun in 1830); 1835(?)-36. Tipped-in
manuscripts composed 1837 and 1838.

Provenance
     Sotheby’s 1930. This is one of the manuscripts, along with MSS IX and X,
that Collingwood listed as  in the possession of Mrs. Arthur Severn.  On the
inside front flyleaf, she inscribed:  Joan R. Severn--given to me by Di Pa in
1887 at Brantwood. 

Description
     Notebook, greenish marbled paper boards, three-quarter-bound in dark
blue morocco; 25 × 21 cm; marbled endpapers, and edges; 144 original leaves
(not including endpapers), of which Ruskin numbered only pp. 1-57 (with p. 47
given twice, but, in compensation, no p. 48). A later hand numbered the leaves
but included in this numbering the leaves of a dismembered copybook that was
later tipped in to the back of MS VII (see below), bringing the total to 162
leaves. The year 1830 is visible in the watermark.
     In its initial use, this was a fair-copy notebook used primarily for
 Iteriad,  no. 91, and  Athens,  no. 135, which are fair-copied in a hand
similar to, but larger than, that used for MSS IIA-E.
     On inside front flyleaf (beneath Joan Severn’s inscription):  Begun 28
Novr 1830 / Finished 11 Jany 1832  (written in ink over top of the same words
in pencil). The earlier date refers to the start of composition and the latter
to the final fair-copying (see note to no. 91).
     Title page (1r):  ITERIAD / or / THREE WEEKS / AMONG / the / LAKES /
1831.  The title page, which Ruskin displayed in fancy lettering drawn from
Butterworth’s Young Arithmetician’s Instructor: Containing Specimens of
Writing with Directions (RFL 259, 261 n. 17) is reproduced in Iteriad, or
Three Weeks among the Lakes, ed. James S. Dearden (Newcastle upon Tyne: Frank
Graham, 1969), among the illustrations between pp. 32 and 33. Similar
lettering occurs in some of Ruskin’s letters to his father in MS XI.
     On the verso of the title page, Ruskin drew another fancily lettered
 Iteriad,  followed by  Book First / The argument  and a prose summary of the
first book’s contents. Each of the three remaining books begins much the same
way, without  Iteriad  repeated, but with a fancy ornament separating the text
of the argument from the poem.
     Title page (59r):  ATHE[NS / OR THE]  and on the verso (59v)  [Canto
First],  with the bracketed letters representing what Ruskin only sketched in
pencil from his orthography primer, without finishing the letters in ink. At
the top of the following page, halfway down on which begins the poem, Ruskin
penciled  [THE ARGUMENT]  and left a space for a prose summary, like those
that begin the books of  Iteriad. 
     Tipped in between the front marbled flyleaves, Wedderburn(?) added a
page on which is pasted a description of MS VII clipped from PJR, as was done
for other manuscripts that Collingwood had already described. On this sheet,
Wedderburn(?) provides information about material tipped in at the back of MS
VII:  His father’s copy of ‘The Gipsies’ & ‘The Exile of St Helena,’ formerly
in one thin copybook have now been inserted in this book. 

Content
     Forward from front of book:
     a)  Iteriad,  no. 91 (pp. 1r-58r; or, in other terms, 1r-v [title page
and argument] + pp. 1-57 [as numbered by Ruskin, with inaccuracies already
mentioned] + 30v-58r).
     b)  Athens,  no. 135 (59r-61v), with the poem itself (six stanzas only)
appearing on 60r-61v; incomplete fair copy (see no. 135).
     c) Blank leaves, 62r-113r.
     Forward from end of book:
     d) Blank inside flyleaf and 162v-r.
     e) Poem,  The Rhine  (161v, dated 1833; Works, 2:368-69), and poem,
 Chamouni  (161r-59v, dated 1833; Works, 2:382-84), both of them sections of
no. 180. Copied by another hand, probably Margaret’s. Items e-h have the
appearance of having all been fair-copied at around the same time, as if these
pieces were being anthologized for some reason.
     f) No. 244, untitled, copied in the same hand (probably Margaret’s), and
dated  October 1st 1836  (159v-55r).
     g) No. B, Undatable, partial copy in the same hand, probably Margaret’s
(154v-r).
     h) No. 204, copied in the same hand, probably Margaret’s (153v-50v).
     i) As noted above ( Description ) and in the Library Edition (Works 2:27
n. 1, 45 n. 2a; not mentioned, however, in the description of MS VII, Works,
2:532), a copybook was dismembered and tipped in to the back, starting between
leaves 149 and 147 and continuing until between leaves 115 and 113. This
booklet contains no. 251 (a copy probably by John James, with annotations
attributed to W. H. Harrison), and no. 256 (also a copy probably by John
James). There are a total of 18 leaves. It can no longer be positively
confirmed that these leaves once formed a single  thin copybook  (see
 Description  above)--as opposed, say, to two separate booklets, one for each
poem. There is no reason to doubt the claim, however, since all leaves measure
the same size, 19 x 22.8 cm.
     Title page:  The Gipsies / a Poem / by / John Ruskin Aetat 18 / 1837 
(1r, verso blank); 9 leaves, following the title-page leaf, which are numbered
pp. 1-17 in the copyist’s hand, and written on both sides (except for the
final page).
     Title page:  The Exile of St. Helena / by John Ruskin / Aetat 19 / 1838 
(11r, and 11v blank, if one counts these leaves continuously from  The
Gipsies ); 7 leaves, following the title-page leaf, written on both sides
(except for the final page). These leaves were not numbered by the copyist,
but the lines of poetry were numbered and, on that basis, nothing appears to
be missing.