{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\froman \fcharset0 \fprq2 Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
}\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstpg\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs24
\tab In {\plain \fs24 \ul Praeterita}{\plain \fs24 , Ruskin says he removed  two little pencillings from Canterbury south porch and \softline
central tower,  which he gave  to Miss Gale, of Burgate House, Canterbury; the remnants of the book \softline
itself to Mrs. Talbot, of Tyn-y-Ffynon, Barmouth, both very dear friends  (}{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24 , 35:78). He did not \softline
give the entire remnants to Fanny Talbot, however, for  among the early drawings left for gift to Joanie \softline
[Severn] are all those made--the first ever made from nature--at Sevenoaks, Tunbridge, Canterbury, \softline
and Dover  (}{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24 , 35:467). In  John Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s First Sketchbook,  James S. Dearden notes that Miss \softline
Gale{\u8217\'92}s Canterbury drawings were signed and dated by Ruskin 15 January 1880, when he must have \softline
given them away. The discrepancy in }{\plain \fs24 \ul Praeterita}{\plain \fs24  concerning the remainder of the sketchbook is \softline
explained by Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s letter of 6 January 1885 to Fanny Talbot, quoted by Dearden:\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab by way of a beginning of rubbish I{\u8217\'92}ve sent you the cover and most of the sheets of my first \softline
sketch book, 1831--when I was 12. It has some pencil scrawls at Dover and Canterbury and much \softline
MS of my proposed Mineralogical Dictionary! I have taken out some leaves which I mean to frame to \softline
preserve, referring to the book only as given to you. (}{\plain \fs24 \ul Facets}{\plain \fs24 , 88)\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab The removed sketches,  first ever made from nature,  remained at Brantwood until the dispersal \softline
sales of 1931.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab The Talbot book (Bem ?) was acquired by J. H. Whitehouse at some point between 1919 and \softline
1923 (}{\plain \fs24 \ul RBB}{\plain \fs24  38). The Gale drawings (Bem 1188-89). . . . The Severn drawings were divided among \softline
different lots at the 1931 Brantwood dispersal sales. Two, the Battle Abbey and Tunbridge Wells \softline
drawings, were bought for Charles Goodspeed. They are not listed in Goodspeed, }{\plain \fs24 \ul Cat}{\plain \fs24 ., which begins \softline
with drawings of 1833}}