{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\froman \fcharset0 \fprq2 Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
}\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstpg\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs24
Content\par
\tab Forward from front of book:\par
\tab {\plain \fs24 \ul a}{\plain \fs24 ) Fragmentary alphabetized list of minerals, keyed to a reference work, and crystal sketches \softline
or geometry exercises (inside front cover).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul b}{\plain \fs24 ) Lists of minerals, keyed to a reference work (1r); Yale bookplate tipped in to this page.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul c}{\plain \fs24 ) Travel itinerary, no. 25, prospective list (1v-16r).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul d}{\plain \fs24 ) Fair-copy transcript of  The Sound of the Sea  by Mrs. Hemans, no. 26 (17r-17v).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul e}{\plain \fs24 ) List of something  wanting  (18v), and sketches of machinery (18v-19r, 20v-21r, 22r).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul f}{\plain \fs24 ) Mineral list, keyed to a reference work (20r).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Forward from end of book:\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul g}{\plain \fs24 ) Geological sketches, and Latin vocabulary list (inside back cover).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul h}{\plain \fs24 ) Tour notes, no. 25, actual tour notes (42v-42r).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul i}{\plain \fs24 ) Dimensions  of a large stone near Grange ; catalogue of 105 minerals, no. 86 (41v-39r).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul j}{\plain \fs24 ) Narrative of a geologist in Sweden, running into mineralogical notes with frequent references \softline
to Loudon{\u8217\'92}s }{\plain \fs24 \ul Magazine of Natural History}{\plain \fs24 , no. 171 (38v-22v, 21v-20v, 18r; then, from 16v to 3v, \softline
running reverso and upside-down into travel itinerary (}{\plain \fs24 \ul c}{\plain \fs24 , above) coming from other end, filling whatever \softline
blank spaces were left).}}