{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff2\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f230\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f231\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f233\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f234\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f235\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f236\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f237\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f238\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f250\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f251\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f253\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f254\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f255\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f256\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f257\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}
{\f258\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 \styrsid6699700 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}}{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid421508\rsid2387253
\rsid5531259\rsid5922998\rsid6699700\rsid9523012\rsid10629339\rsid12196466\rsid13517992\rsid16474472}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 11.0.5604;}{\info{\title Scythian Guest publication history}{\author  }{\operator  }{\creatim\yr2005\mo10\dy10\hr8\min41}
{\revtim\yr2005\mo10\dy13\hr23\min28}{\version5}{\edmins461}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords463}{\nofchars2644}{\*\company Southeastern Louisiana University}{\nofcharsws3101}{\vern24689}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\viewnobound1\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel
\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot6699700\newtblstyruls\nogrowautofit \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid6699700 \f2\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid6699700 Scythian Guest publication history
\par 
\par }{\insrsid5922998 Note that photos of title page of 1868 printing in Dearden, "Wise and Ruskin II," between pp. 176 and 177; and in Wise and Smart bibliography
\par }{\insrsid2387253 
\par See Dearden, "Wise and Ruskin II," for variants between forgery and other versions, which "make it cledar that Wise took his text from }{\i\insrsid2387253 Friendship's Offering}{\insrsid2387253 " (178).}{\insrsid2387253\charrsid2387253 
\par }{\insrsid5922998 
\par }{\insrsid6699700 In their bibliographical note to }{\i\insrsid6699700 The Scythian Guest,}{\insrsid6699700  Cook and Wedderburn questioned the "authenticity" of an 1849 reprinting of }{\i\insrsid6699700 The Scythian Guest}{\insrsid6699700  
as a small pamphlet (}{\i\insrsid6699700 Works,}{\insrsid6699700  2:101-2). This exposure, along with that of an 1868 reprinting of <}{\i\insrsid6699700 Leoni}{\insrsid6699700 
>, was one of the earliest condemnations of "certain nineteenth-century pamphlets" ultimately to be linked to the forgers, <T. J. Wise and Buxton Forman>. W
ith bibliographic work for the first two volumes of the <Library Edition> proceeding simultaneously, the editors' suspicions must have developed from mutually supporting evidence of the two pamphlets' spuriousness.
\par \tab In the case of the }{\i\insrsid6699700 Scythian Guest}{\insrsid6699700  pamphlet, Cook and Wedderburn raise}{\insrsid10629339 d}{\insrsid6699700 
 doubts about the uncharacteristic style of the preface, a discord that had also struck them respecting the }{\i\insrsid13517992 Leoni}{\insrsid13517992 
 pamphlet preface. In this case, however, the editors were all the more incredulous that, a year prior to the publication of <}{\i\insrsid13517992 Poems}{\insrsid13517992  (1850)> and at a time when that latter project must have been well }{
\insrsid10629339 in hand}{\insrsid13517992  by Ruskin's father and W. H. Harrison, Ruskin would have decided to reissue a single poem separately and on his own. Moreover, the editors had found }{\insrsid10629339 <}{\insrsid13517992 John James R
uskin's list of his son's poetry publications}{\insrsid10629339 >}{\insrsid13517992  in }{\insrsid10629339 <}{\insrsid13517992 MS ?}{\insrsid10629339 >, which contains no mention of the pamphlet.
\par \tab In addition, whereas in the case of the }{\i\insrsid10629339 Leoni}{\insrsid10629339  pamphlet the editors troubled to follow up with the alleged printer, who could find no record of the arrangement,}{\insrsid9523012  in this case}{\insrsid10629339 
 they }{\insrsid9523012 remarked the lack of any printer's mark at all. Finally, as with }{\i\insrsid9523012 Leoni,}{\insrsid9523012  they noted the pamphlet's absence in Shepherd's }{\i\insrsid9523012 Bibliography,}{\insrsid9523012 
 yet its presence in Wise and Smart's }{\i\insrsid9523012 Bibliography of Ruskin,}{\insrsid9523012  as well as a recent sale at a high price.
\par }{\insrsid6699700 \tab Shepherd, who in his 1878 introduction to his }{\i\insrsid6699700 B}{\i\insrsid6699700\charrsid16474472 ibliography}{\insrsid6699700  declared that "no entry has . . . been made at second-hand[,] but always with the 
actual book, pamphlet, magazine, or journal described lying before the compiler" (p. 7), expressly stated, as Cook and Wedderburn point out, that }{\i\insrsid6699700 Leoni}{\insrsid6699700 
 had never been reprinted. Specifically, the statement that "the Prose Legend has never been reprinted" first appeared in the ?? edition of the }{\i\insrsid6699700 Bibliography}{\insrsid6699700 
 (p. ?), released in 18??, but the remark was still too early to have been issued in defiance of the forgery, for the existence of the pamphlet was not asserted until 1889, in part ? of the Wise and Smart }{\i\insrsid6699700 Bibliography of Ruskin}{
\insrsid6699700 . (Instead, Shepherd's point was presumably to compare the printing history of }{\i\insrsid6699700 Leoni}{\insrsid6699700  as a prose piece with that of the early poems; it was the exclusion of }{\i\insrsid6699700\charrsid5531259 Leoni}{
\insrsid6699700  }{\insrsid6699700\charrsid5531259 from}{\insrsid6699700  the <}{\i\insrsid6699700 Poems}{\insrsid6699700  [1850]> that appears to have interested the bibliographer.)
\par \tab The forgery was the first of the class that Wise attempted to authenticate by planting it in an otherwise legitimate bibliography of an author's works. . . .}{\insrsid6699700\charrsid16474472 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid6699700 
\par }}