{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\froman \fcharset0 \fprq2 Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
}\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstpg\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs24
Content\par
\tab {\plain \fs24 \ul a}{\plain \fs24 )  To Poesie  (no. 109) is listed first in Goodspeed, }{\plain \fs24 \ul Cat.}{\plain \fs24  (item 83.A), and presumably \softline
appeared first in the original binding, although according to }{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24  (2:534) this item either was added \softline
later to MS X as described by Collingwood or was omitted from that earlier description. Its place in \softline
front of the contents may account for its severe fire damage, much of the upper right corner being lost \softline
of the 10.3 {\u215\'d7} 18.8-cm sheet. (Similarly, the upper right corners of }{\plain \fs24 \ul b}{\plain \fs24 , below, which probably lay \softline
immediately beneath }{\plain \fs24 \ul a}{\plain \fs24 , were sacrificed.) For preservation, the sheet is encased in rice paper, and \softline
enclosed in a separte folder in  Miscellaneous Manuscripts. \par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Both Goodspeed, }{\plain \fs24 \ul Cat.}{\plain \fs24  and }{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24  are tentative in identifying the hand of this copy, but the \softline
hand is unquestionably Margaret{\u8217\'92}s. In a penciled note at the end of the poem, she apologizes  I am \softline
sorry this is no better writte[n b]ut my pen was bad & I coul[d] not make it better. \par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul b}{\plain \fs24 ) Journal of a Tour through France to Chamouni (no. 203), according to }{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24  (2:534), was \softline
contained in  two paper books,  one of 26 pages for Canto I, and the second of 10 pages  as far as \softline
carried  for Canto II. Goodspeed, }{\plain \fs24 \ul Cat}{\plain \fs24 . (item 83.B) summarizes  36 pp., 4to.  Despite the severe \softline
charring, the manuscript is preserved complete, although the  books  are cut into individual leaves, \softline
which are encased in rice paper.  Canto 1}{\plain \fs24 \super st}{\plain \fs24   (the poem is untitled) is written on thirteen 15.5 {\u215\'d7} 19-cm \softline
sheets; the presumptive second canto (no such designation is supplied, only the stanzas are numbered) \softline
is written on five 22.5 {\u215\'d7} 18-cm sheets.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab In both  books,  the stanzas run continuously recto to verso, leaf by leaf. In canto two, two \softline
successive stanzas are numbered  24,  the editors of the Library Edition silently correcting the second to  \softline
25  and adjusting the successive numbering accordingly. The fragmentary twenty-ninth and final stanza \softline
(thirtieth, in the Library Edition) is not incomplete owing to missing manuscript, since it stops in the \softline
middle of a verso.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab With its very few corrections, the manuscript appears to be fair or semifinal copy (although one \softline
must never underestimate Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s facile ability to produce uncorrected draft). If fair copy, the \softline
manuscript, by comparison with Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s other travelogues, is no  copperplate  fair copy like the  \softline
Iteriad  in MS VII, much less an elaborately illustrated production like the Account of a Tour on the \softline
Continent in MS IX. Perhaps Ruskin was becoming less interested in bookmaking as an aspect of his \softline
poetry.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul c}{\plain \fs24 ) Both descriptions (Goodspeed, }{\plain \fs24 \ul Cat.}{\plain \fs24 , item 83.C, and }{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24 , 2:534) list a versified letter \softline
from abroad to Richard Fall, 14 June--2 September 1835 (no. 204), which is now kept inside a folder \softline
in a box at Yale,  Ruskin, John, 1819-1900 / Letters: F-H. \par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab The description in }{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24  specifies double columns on  5 large pages,  but Goodspeed, }{\plain \fs24 \ul Cat.}{\plain \fs24  \softline
cites  10 pp.  On the folder containing the manuscript (resembling the other folders for items of the \softline
Goodspeed donation), as in }{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24 ,  5 p.  is notated. Goodspeed }{\plain \fs24 \ul Cat}{\plain \fs24 . gives the erroneous description, \softline
since the manuscript presently consists of three sheets, 20.5 {\u215\'d7} 25 cm, two of them written in double \softline
columns on both sides, and the third written in double columns on one side. Nothing is missing, since \softline
these sheets constitute the entirety of the poem as published in }{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24 , 2:429-38--including the  ms.  \softline
postscript, dropped into a note on p. 438.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab The charred sheets are encased in rice paper. The hand appears to be Margaret Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul d}{\plain \fs24 ) Both Goodspeed, }{\plain \fs24 \ul Cat.}{\plain \fs24  (item 83.D) and }{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24  (2:534) list  Conversation supposed to be \softline
held between M}{\plain \fs24 \super r}{\plain \fs24  R. M}{\plain \fs24 \super rs}{\plain \fs24  R. Miss R. & Master R. on New-years morning 1836  (no. 215). Both \softline
descriptions count six pages-- 6 pp., 4to,  according to Goodspeed--which correspond to the three 
extant 25 {\u215\'d7} 20-cm sheets, encased in plastic and enclosed in a separate folder in the box  \softline
Miscellaneous Manuscripts.  Fire damage was severe to the right edges, which show a curious vertical \softline
streak, as if the sheets had been folded along that crease; however, Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s writing carries across the \softline
crease.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul e}{\plain \fs24 ) Both Goodspeed, }{\plain \fs24 \ul Cat.}{\plain \fs24  (item 83.E) and }{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24  (2:534) list a rhymed letter to John James \softline
Ruskin, 31 March 1836 (no. 230), which is now kept inside a folder in a box at Yale,  Ruskin, John, \softline
1819-1900 / Letters: N-Z.  The 20.5 {\u215\'d7} 25-cm folded sheet, written in verse on three sides, with the \softline
address and a prose paragraph on the fourth side, corresponds to Goodspeed{\u8217\'92}s  3 pp., 4to, and \softline
address.  Charred and encased in rice paper. The most thorough transcription of the letter is in }{\plain \fs24 \ul RFL}{\plain \fs24 , \softline
358-64, which also provides a full description of the letter.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab This is the only item from MS X that is specifically identified among Goodspeed{\u8217\'92}s donations in \softline
}{\plain \fs24 \ul YULG}{\plain \fs24  (17, no. 3 [January 1943]: 59). The remainder may have been included among the  31 sheets of \softline
poems  also listed in that acknowledgment, or they may have been comprised in the  other Ruskiniana  \softline
acknowledged later in }{\plain \fs24 \ul YULG}{\plain \fs24  (19, no. 2 [October 1944]: 35). See MS IA,  Description. \par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul f}{\plain \fs24 ) Both descriptions (Goodspeed, }{\plain \fs24 \ul Cat.}{\plain \fs24 , item 83.F, and }{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24 , 2:534) identify a partial copy \softline
(lines 1-185 only) of  The Exile of St. Helena  (no. 256) in an unidentified hand-- in the hand of a \softline
secretary,  the Library Edition adds, in its list of  Exile  manuscripts, of which Yale{\u8217\'92}s is  }{\plain \fs24 \ul b}{\plain \fs24   (}{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24 , 2:45 \softline
n. 2). The hand, I believe, is Margaret Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab The manuscript is untitled, except for the epigraph drawn from II Samuel (the second epigraph \softline
of the printed version, from Aeschylus, is not present; see }{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24 , 2:45). The manuscript consists of \softline
three 18 {\u215\'d7} 23-cm sheets, written on both sides, plus one shorter 18 {\u215\'d7} 15-cm sheet, written on one \softline
side, and torn just below line 185; hence, the torn page represents the state of the manuscript since it \softline
was first described as totaling 185 lines, and nothing was lost to fire damage except for the right edges, \softline
which are severely charred. The leaves are encased in plastic and enclosed in a folder in the box  \softline
Miscellaneous Manuscripts.  \par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul g}{\plain \fs24 ) Both descriptions (Goodspeed, }{\plain \fs24 \ul Cat.}{\plain \fs24 , item 83.G, and }{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24 , 2:534) include the  Peace \softline
Song,  and the  Zodiac Song,  the Library Edition explaining that these poems, like }{\plain \fs24 \ul a}{\plain \fs24  above, were \softline
added to MS X when first bound and were not enclosed in the  cover  described by Collingwood.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab The charred manuscripts of the two poems are encased in rice paper and kept in separate \softline
folders in the box  Miscellaneous Manuscripts.  }{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24  (2:245 n.) describes a  loose sheet  for each, \softline
and Goodspeed, }{\plain \fs24 \ul Cat.}{\plain \fs24   2 pp., 4to  for both. Specifically,  The Peace Song  is 20 {\u215\'d7} 25 cm and \softline
watermarked 1863, and  The Zodiac Song  is  18 {\u215\'d7} 25 cm (no watermark). Perhaps the two \softline
manuscripts were intended as a pair, since the one is entitled and numbered  1. The Peace Song,  and \softline
the other  2. The Zodiac Song. \par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab The first printing of  The Zodiac Song  (}{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24  2:247) follows this manuscript exactly and is \softline
evidently taken from it, while the printing of  The Peace Song  in the Library Edition (there entitled  \softline
Awake, Awake ) is taken from another source and lists this manuscript as a variant. See also Van Akin \softline
Burd, ed., }{\plain \fs24 \ul The Winnington Letters}{\plain \fs24  (Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press, Belknap Press, \softline
1969), 251, 253 n. 4.}}