{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\froman \fcharset0 \fprq2 Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
}\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstpg\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs24
Content\par
\tab Forward from front of book:\par
\tab {\plain \fs24 \ul a}{\plain \fs24 )  Iteriad,  no. 91 (pp. 1r-58r; or, in other terms, 1r-v [title page and argument] + pp. 1-57 [as \softline
numbered by Ruskin, with inaccuracies already mentioned] + 30v-58r).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul b}{\plain \fs24 )  Athens,  no. 135 (59r-61v), with the poem itself (six stanzas only) appearing on 60r-61v; \softline
incomplete fair copy (see no. 135).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul c}{\plain \fs24 ) Blank leaves, 62r-113r.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Forward from end of book:\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul d}{\plain \fs24 ) Blank inside flyleaf and 162v-r.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul e}{\plain \fs24 ) Poem,  The Rhine  (161v, dated 1833; }{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24 , 2:368-69), and poem,  Chamouni  (161r-59v, dated 1833; }{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24 , 2:382-84), both of them sections of no. 180. Copied by another hand, \softline
probably Margaret{\u8217\'92}s. Items }{\plain \fs24 \ul e}{\plain \fs24 -}{\plain \fs24 \ul h}{\plain \fs24  have the appearance of having all been fair-copied at around the same \softline
time, as if these pieces were being anthologized for some reason.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul f}{\plain \fs24 ) No. 244, untitled, copied in the same hand (probably Margaret{\u8217\'92}s), and dated  October 1{\field{\*\fldinst ADVANCE \\u 3}{\fldrslt }}st{\field{\*\fldinst ADVANCE \\d 3}{\fldrslt }} \softline
1836  (159v-55r).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul g}{\plain \fs24 ) No. B, Undatable, partial copy in the same hand, probably Margaret{\u8217\'92}s (154v-r).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul h}{\plain \fs24 ) No. 204, copied in the same hand, probably Margaret{\u8217\'92}s (153v-50v).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul i}{\plain \fs24 ) As noted above ( Description ) and in the Library Edition (}{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24  2:27 n. 1, 45 n. 2}{\plain \fs24 \ul a}{\plain \fs24 ; not \softline
mentioned, however, in the description of MS VII, }{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24 , 2:532), a copybook was dismembered and \softline
tipped in to the back, starting between leaves 149 and 147 and continuing until between leaves 115 and \softline
113. This booklet contains no. 251 (a copy probably by John James, with annotations attributed to W. \softline
H. Harrison), and no. 256 (also a copy probably by John James). There are a total of 18 leaves. It can \softline
no longer be positively confirmed that these leaves once formed a single  thin copybook  (see  \softline
Description  above)--as opposed, say, to two separate booklets, one for each poem. There is no \softline
reason to doubt the claim, however, since all leaves measure the same size, 19 x 22.8 cm.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Title page:  The Gipsies / a Poem / by / John Ruskin Aetat 18 / 1837  (1r, verso blank); 9 \softline
leaves, following the title-page leaf, which are numbered pp. 1-17 in the copyist{\u8217\'92}s hand, and written on \softline
both sides (except for the final page).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Title page:  The Exile of St. Helena / by John Ruskin / Aetat 19 / 1838  (11r, and 11v blank, if \softline
one counts these leaves continuously from  The Gipsies ); 7 leaves, following the title-page leaf, written \softline
on both sides (except for the final page). These leaves were not numbered by the copyist, but the lines \softline
of poetry were numbered and, on that basis, nothing appears to be missing.}}