{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\froman \fcharset0 \fprq2 Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
}\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstpg\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs24
Content\par
\tab {\plain \fs24 \ul a}{\plain \fs24 ) Notes on Greek, Egyptian, and Asiatic empires (see no. 135); algebra problems (inside front \softline
endboard).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul b}{\plain \fs24 ) Inscription (1r, see  Description  above; 1v, blank).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul c}{\plain \fs24 ) Title page (2r, see  Description  above; 2v blank).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul d}{\plain \fs24 ) Practical geometry problems (3r-26v). Each page is devoted to a single problem, consisting \softline
of a heading ( Problem I,   Problem II,  etc., each heading decorated with flourishes, as described in  \softline
Description  above); a prose statement of the problem; and an elegant diagram that carries out the the \softline
problem. There are 48 problems total. Problem 44 is missing its roman numeral in the heading, which \softline
reads simply  Problem.  Problems 46-48 are missing their prose statements.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab This portion of the notebook bears out Duncan K. Wilson{\u8217\'92}s remark about methods of teaching \softline
arithmetic (at least in Scotland and up through the eighteenth century, which are the limits of his study), \softline
namely that  it was customary for the master to dictate rules and examples which the pupil slavishly \softline
reproduced in his copybook in beautiful copperplate writing  (}{\plain \fs24 \ul The History of Mathematical Teaching in \softline
Scotland to the End of the Eighteenth Century}{\plain \fs24  [London: University of London Press, 1935], 45). The \softline
same must have been true of geometry instruction, which tended to be practically oriented (Wilson, pp. \softline
57, 82). A few specimens of text will serve to indicate the nature of all 48 problems. In manuscript, \softline
each of the following texts is accompanied by a diagram that demonstrates its respective problem in \softline
geometrical drawing: \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 Problem I\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab  From a point C in a given line AB to raise a perpendicular to that line.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 Problem II\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab To divide a given right line AB into two equal parts that is to bisect it.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 Problem III\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab From a given point D to let fall a perpendicular on a given line AB.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 Ruskin, for whom no copying task could prove too obsessive, may have enjoyed this practical labor, \softline
although he complained bitterly about his more abstract mathematics instruction (see no. 173).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul e}{\plain \fs24 ) Five neatly copied rules of proportion, e.g.,  If the line }{\plain \fs24 \ul a}{\plain \fs24  = }{\plain \fs24 \ul b}{\plain \fs24  / And the line }{\plain \fs24 \ul c}{\plain \fs24  = }{\plain \fs24 \ul b}{\plain \fs24  / Then will \softline
the line }{\plain \fs24 \ul c}{\plain \fs24  = }{\plain \fs24 \ul a}{\plain \fs24   (27r-28r).}{\plain \fs24 \ul \par
}{\plain \fs24 \ul \ul0\tab\ul f}{\plain \fs24 ) Small pencil and watercolor landscape drawings over top of geometrical figures (28v-29r).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul g}{\plain \fs24 ) Algebraic exercises, pencil and ink (29v-38v, plus inside back endboard). Also on \softline
endpaper: pencil drawing of a gothic edifice, perhaps a cathedral entrance.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul h}{\plain \fs24 ) Between 38v and endpaper, at least 4 pages removed, of which the stubs remain.}}