{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\froman \fcharset0 \fprq2 Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
}\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstpg\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs24
Described by Ruskin\par
\par
Taken from the Gardens of the Crown Inn, Seven Oaks  (1r);  Seven Oaks church from Behind the \softline
Crown inn Gardens  (2r);  Knole house and park  (3r);  From the Tunbridge road near Seven Oaks  \softline
(4r);  Entrance to Seven Oaks from the Tunbridge road  (5r);  Leeds Castle near Maidstone  (6r); the \softline
seventh leaf cut away;  Ruins of the Roman Tower, Dover Castle (built by Julius Caesar)  (8r);  One of \softline
entrance towers. Dover Castle  (9r);  St Radigunds abbey from the inside  (10r);  Entrance to sally \softline
port, Dover castle  (11r); an incomplete and unannotated drawing of a ruined wall with an entrance \softline
(12r);  Entrance to an old College at Maidstone  (13r, but a loose sheet that may be out of place); \softline
unannotated drawing of large rock or cliffs with trees (14r); unannotated drawing of a ravine (15r); a \softline
fence and trees along a road identified as  At Dulwich, Surrey  (16r); four blank leaves. (Tears in the \softline
margin reveal two missing leaves, though 13r appears not to be one of these.)\par
\par
\tab These subjects closely match some of those in Mary Richardson{\u8217\'92}s sketchbook, which may \softline
have been done at John{\u8217\'92}s side at the same time in either 1831 or 1832, since both children were \softline
students of Charles Runciman--Mary, for once, even maintaining the prior claim to the instruction and \softline
accomplishment (see Dearden, ibid., p. 89, and {\plain \fs24 \ul RFL}{\plain \fs24 , p. 258, 263). Even more notable is how closely \softline
the subjects match Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s own drawings in the 1831 Bembridge sketchbook--annotated in the 1880s \softline
by Ruskin as  Gateway at Maidstone 1831; Maidstone Church 1831; Dover Cliffs; [St. Radigund{\u8217\'92}s] \softline
Abbey near Dover see }{\plain \fs24 \ul Fors}{\plain \fs24 ; My first tree from nature 1831; Gateway of a college at Maidstone inside \softline
view  (Dearden, ibid., p. 89).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab One wonders whether the summer 1832 tour was limited to the southeast in order to give the \softline
children, especially John, ample opportunity to develop their sketching abilities, going over and \softline
improving the same subjects--perhaps at Runciman{\u8217\'92}s recommendation. In February 1832, Ruskin had \softline
boasted to his father how he had invented a Welsh scene out of his head by plundering Mary{\u8217\'92}s \softline
sketches for the techniques he needed:  I examined one of Mary{\u8217\'92}s pictures, to see how the rocks were \softline
done, & then another to see how the woods were done, & another to see how the mountains were \softline
done, and another to see how the cottages were done, and I patched them all together, & I made such \softline
a lovely scene  (}{\plain \fs24 \ul RFL}{\plain \fs24  263). By returning to the same scenes in the Southeast on what would amount to \softline
Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s first deliberate sketching tour, perhaps he was catching up with Mary and learning  how it was \softline
done. \par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab All of these sketches employ the pencil drawing that, Ruskin said later that February,  does well \softline
for near scenes, analyses of foliage, or large trees, but not for distance, or bare & wild scenery --not, \softline
that is, the watercolor that Runciman, impressed by Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s Welsh composition, immediately set him \softline
to learn, and not the dramatic commotion of expansive picturesque views he attempted in his  Dover \softline
Castle  of c. 1832 (}{\plain \fs24 \ul RFL}{\plain \fs24  267-68; see Paul H. Walton, }{\plain \fs24 \ul The Drawings of John Ruskin}{\plain \fs24  [London: Oxford \softline
University Press, 1972], pp. 7, 9 pl. 4). The sketches, rather, bring the spectator close to the subject, \softline
though always from the perspective of entering, exiting, passing by--the experience of picturesque \softline
travel.}}