{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\froman \fcharset0 \fprq2 Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
}\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstpg\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs24
\tab Unruled notebook, blue-green marbled boards, half-bound in red leather; 23.5 {\u215\'d7} 19 cm. Extant \softline
are 38 leaves. At least 4 leaves have been torn out from the end of the notebook. Watermark  J \softline
Whatman / Turkey Mill / 1831. \par
\tab Title page (2r):  Practical / GEOMETRY.  The word  Practical  is lettered in a gothic style, \softline
while  GEOMETRY  is lettered in the style used for the words  ITERIAD  and  ATHENS  on the title \softline
pages to those epics in MS VII (see MS VII,  Description ). Above the title is an ornament consisting \softline
of a face surrounded by fancy scroll. While early cataloger{\u8217\'92}s notes at HL assume that such  ornamental \softline
pen work  must be  in another hand  (see Hodson,  Checklist,  196), the ornamented lettering, like that \softline
for the title pages of  Iteriad  and  Athens  in MS VII, was likely copied by Ruskin from E. Butterworth, \softline
{\plain \fs24 \ul Butterworth{\u8217\'92}s Young Arithmetician{\u8217\'92}s Instructor, Containing Specimens of Writing with Directions}{\plain \fs24  \softline
(Edinburgh, 1815?). Such a text seems an appropriate model for Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s geometry exercise \softline
notebook, but the }{\plain \fs24 \ul Young Arithmetician{\u8217\'92}s Instructor}{\plain \fs24  did not necessarily form part of the regimen \softline
assigned by Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s mathematics tutor, Mr. Rowbotham. The Butterworth text had been purchased by \softline
John James in 1827 (}{\plain \fs24 \ul RFL}{\plain \fs24  168 n. 1), much earlier than Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s formal mathematics tutoring, and it \softline
appears to have been consulted by the family mainly for orthographical instruction and practice (}{\plain \fs24 \ul RFL}{\plain \fs24  \softline
251, 259). In fact, the exercises that Ruskin labels  problems  in his notebook are more orthographical \softline
than mathematical in character, being more concerned with how to draw geometrical shapes accurately \softline
than with how to theorize about them--a  practical,  not a pure, geometry.}}