{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\froman \fcharset0 \fprq2 Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
}\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstpg\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs24
\tab Date of composition starting either in early 1832 or in early 1833 and continuing for an \softline
unspecifiable period, probably not longer than a year or two.\par
\tab The first leaf (1r) displays an ornamented inscription,  Mast{\plain \fs24 \super r}{\plain \fs24  Ruskin, / Jan}{\plain \fs24 \super y}{\plain \fs24  21}{\plain \fs24 \super st}{\plain \fs24  1833.  No \softline
indication is given whether this date refers to the inception of the text or its completion. An argument for \softline
21 January 1833 as the completion date can be drawn from the orthography. The scroll work on each \softline
page around the headings  Problem I,   Problem II,  etc., closely resembles that used for the  Finis  to  \softline
Iteriad -- such a finis,  Ruskin said on 14 January 1832 when he finished  Iteriad,  that he  took [from] \softline
Mr Butterworth  and indeed  quite eclipsed Mr Butterworth [and] threw him into the shade   (}{\plain \fs24 \ul RFL}{\plain \fs24  259; \softline
see }{\plain \fs24 \ul RGI}{\plain \fs24  pl. 7). If Ruskin went on in early 1832 to use this style of flourish for his  Practical Geometry,  \softline
he might well have finished the notebook a year later on 21 January 1833. This hypothesis is supported \softline
also by the distinctive lettering used for  GEOMETRY.  The title pages sharing that lettering,  Iteriad  \softline
and  Athens  in MS VII, probably were drawn during the last quarter of 1831 (see nos. 91, 135). Thus, \softline
we can imagine Ruskin, at the beginning of 1832, drawing on his full orthographic arsenal for his  \softline
Practical Geometry. \par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Alternatively, an argument for 21 January 1833 as the date of inaugurating the notebook is \softline
suggested by the apparent incompletion of the project. The loose ends are not very noticeable (see  \softline
Content  below), however, and Ruskin likewise inscribed his  Iteriad  fair copy as finished, despite \softline
missing  Notes  (see no. 91). Nonetheless, the fact that  Practical Geometry  is incomplete must weigh \softline
somewhat against Ruskin having signed and dated it as if to signify an accomplished ending.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab The choice between the alternative interpretations is not greatly helped by the contents. In his \softline
14 January 1832 letter, the same letter in which Ruskin mentions drawing on Butterworth for the  Finis  \softline
to  Iteriad,  he also refers to his mathematics lessons as  Mr Roebothams [}{\plain \fs24 \ul sic}{\plain \fs24 ] sums --namely,  addition \softline
subtraction multiplication and division.  By 4 March, he had  positively got to the Rule of three  (}{\plain \fs24 \ul RFL}{\plain \fs24  \softline
273), a method of working out problems of proportion. On 15 January 1833, shortly before the \softline
inscription date in  Practical Geometry,  Ruskin complained of being  bogged in my algebra.  At any \softline
time during this progress, Ruskin might have begun the  problems  in MX XIA, which are  practical,  \softline
not theoretical; that is, the problems are designed to hone the student{\u8217\'92}s skill with compass and ruler. \softline
This practical training might have been started in January 1833 in preparation for Euclidean geometry, \softline
which is first mentioned by Ruskin in early 1834, when he reached the fifth book of Euclid (}{\plain \fs24 \ul RFL}{\plain \fs24  279); \softline
however, the exercises might just as easily have begun earlier.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab It is possible, of course, that Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s inscription has nothing whatever to do with the geometry \softline
exercises, and that on 21 January 1833 he merely took a fancy to inscribing his name. I favor \softline
interpreting the date as referring to the geometry  problems,  however, and specifically to the \softline
notebook{\u8217\'92}s completion. Besides the orthographical considerations mentioned above, which seem \softline
stronger than coincidence would allow, the ending date of January 1833 is suggested by the practical \softline
geometry  problems  being followed by algebraic problems--exercises that might well have  bogged  \softline
Ruskin afterward, as he complained on 15 January 1833.}}