{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\froman \fcharset0 \fprq2 Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
}\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstpg\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs24
\tab Blue morrocco, gilt, decorated volume 22 {\u215\'d7} 28.5 cm; on spine,  RUSKIN. / MS. POEMS \softline
AND LETTERS. J.R. / {\plain \fs24 \scaps ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, FRANCE, SWITZERLAND.}{\plain \fs24  / 1827-44  1847-51  1859 / }{\plain \fs24 \scaps BOUND. 1924.}{\plain \fs24  \par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Originally, according to Collingwood, MS XI was  an envelope containing collected loose \softline
papers, including poems; fair-copied by the author as presents, chiefly to his father; or copied by others  \softline
(}{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24  2:534). By the time the second volume of the Library Edition was published (1903), the  loose \softline
papers,   together with some others,  had been  bound up in a volume of letters and poems, 1827-44  \softline
(}{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24  2:534). This binding, according to the date stamped on the spine of five other blue morrocco \softline
volumes, was done in 1889. Since Collingwood{\u8217\'92}s }{\plain \fs24 \ul Poems}{\plain \fs24  was published in 1891, the letters cannot \softline
have lain loose in an  envelope  for very long after he described MS XI.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Why, then, is the volume of the early letters stamped on the spine as bound in 1924? According \softline
to the bibliography volume (1912) of the Library Edition, when the }{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24  were completed, there were  \softline
at Brantwood some seven bound quarto volumes of letters from Ruskin to his parents,  of which the \softline
first was the 1827-44 volume described in the second volume. When the volumes of letters were sold \softline
at Sotheby{\u8217\'92}s on 24 July 1930, however, Lot 110 consisted of only six volumes. The discrepancy is \softline
explained, if rather obscurely, by a  NOTE  on a front endpaper of the present first volume.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 In the Library Edition of Ruskin (Vol. 38. p. 205) the contents of this volume are catalogued as two \softline
volumes, viz. (i) 1827-1844 and (iii) 1847-1851. This is because at the time of the catalogue the \softline
volumes were separately bound together in one volume.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab The lettes of 1859 at the end of this volume should have been placed in the volume more \softline
appropriate to their date, but were overlooked when that volume was bound.\par
}{\plain \fs24 December, 1924.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 In 1924 it was decided to disassemble the bindings of the original first and third volumes and rebind \softline
them together. This is apparently all that is meant by the awkward phrase  separately bound together in \softline
one volume.  The redisposition of the volumes{\u8217\'92} contents is clarified by comparing the bibliography list of \softline
1912 with what is stamped on the spines of the volumes currently at Yale (the bindings were never \softline
stamped with volume numbers but only with the dates of their contents):\par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 1912 (}{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24 , 38:205)\ul0 \tab      1924 and afterward\par
}{\plain \fs24 vol. 1: 1827-44       vol. 1: 1827-44, 1847-51, 1859 (bd. 1924)\par
}{\plain \fs24 vol. 2: 1845     vol. 2: 1845-50 (bd. 1889)\par
}{\plain \fs24 vol. 3: 1847-48-49-50-51\ul0 \tab \par
}{\plain \fs24 vol. 4: 1851-52      vol. 3: 1851-52 (bd. 1889)\par
}{\plain \fs24 vol. 5: 1853    vol. 4: 1853 (bd. 1889)\par
}{\plain \fs24 vol. 6: 1857-58-59-61    vol. 5: 1858-61, 1867 (bd. 1889)\par
}{\plain \fs24 vol. 7: 1862-63      vol. 6: 1862-63 (bd. 1889)\par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 First, it is clear that the present first volume holds the original volumes 1 and 3, as well as 1859 letters \softline
that apparently had never been bound prior to 1924. This disposition is confirmed by the volume still \softline
containing a typescript table of contents for the 1827-44 letters and poems, a typescript that differs \softline
markedly from a handwritten table of contents for the 1847-51 letters and from a page divider (no table 
of contents) for 1859. Presumably, the typescript and holograph tables of contents date from their \softline
original respective volumes.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab As for the other slight discrepancies between the two lists, they seem unlikely to have arisen \softline
from any actual redisposition of the contents of the original volumes 2 and 4-7 after 1889. Regarding \softline
volume 2, the Library Edition list fails to mention letters after 1845 though 1850, because, I imagine, \softline
those letters are from John James to Ruskin and not  from Ruskin to his parents  (}{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24 , 38:205)--Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s authorship apparently being the editors{\u8217\'92} primary concern at that point. The same explanation \softline
may be given for the failure of the Library Edition list to mention letters of 1867 in volume 6 (now \softline
volume 5): the 1867 letters are to Ruskin from his mother, not the reverse. Finally, the mismatch \softline
regarding that same volume{\u8217\'92}s 1857 correspondence can be explained by the Library Edition{\u8217\'92}s \softline
providing the greater accuracy, for once: that volume contains only a few 1857 letters, as compared to \softline
the much more substantial collection of 1858-61, as identified on the spine.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Only the first of the blue morrocco volumes, of course, should be identified as MS XI--and, \softline
strictly, only the 1827-44 section of that volume, as presently bound. Although we can never know \softline
precisely what was contained in Collingwood{\u8217\'92}s  envelope,  nothing appears to have been lost since \softline
Cook and Wedderburn described the first binding of these letters (see }{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24  2:534, although this list \softline
omits prose letters). Moreover, assuming the typescript table of contents for the 1827-44 section to be \softline
the original, one finds it to correspond to all manuscripts presently extant in that section. The 1827-44 \softline
letters and poems form a core source for }{\plain \fs24 \ul RFL}{\plain \fs24 , where the present blue morrocco volume 1 is called  \softline
RMS I. \par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab It may be mentioned here that the 1924 rebinding of the original volumes 1 and 3 matches the \softline
1889 bindings. The five 1889 bindings are all the same blue morrocco, gilt, and decorated (only more \softline
worn than the 1924 rebinding), and 22 {\u215\'d7} 28.5 cm. All have written in pencil on their front endpapers,  \softline
To be given to M}{\plain \fs24 \super rs}{\plain \fs24  Arthur Severn in event of my death / AW.,  so they must have been for some time in \softline
the possession of Alexander Wedderburn. Brief descriptions of volumes 2-6 follow. (I have not \softline
compared the volumes{\u8217\'92} contents, letter by letter, against editions of the letters in question, and I have \softline
not attempted to be thorough regarding publication history. Many of the letters in these volumes, of \softline
course, were first published in }{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24 ; Collingwood, }{\plain \fs24 \ul Life}{\plain \fs24 ; and Cook, }{\plain \fs24 \ul Life}{\plain \fs24 ):\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Vol. 2: on spine,  RUSKIN. / MS LETTERS. J.R.  J.J.R. (M.R.) / }{\plain \fs24 \scaps N. ITALY. PISA, \softline
FLORENCE, VENICE, &C.}{\plain \fs24  / 1845.-50. / }{\plain \fs24 \scaps BOUND. 1889. }{\plain \fs24   This volume is important to this \softline
bibliography as forming a source of one letter for }{\plain \fs24 \ul RFL}{\plain \fs24 , where the volume is called  RMS II.  Namely, \softline
the volume holds John James{\u8217\'92}s letter to Margaret, 9 March 1831, a letter that includes John James{\u8217\'92}s \softline
own verse (}{\plain \fs24 \ul RFL}{\plain \fs24  238-41); however, most of John James{\u8217\'92}s letters in this volume are beyond the scope \softline
of }{\plain \fs24 \ul RFL}{\plain \fs24 . Most of the contents of this volume are published as }{\plain \fs24 \ul Ruskin in Italy: Letters To His Parents, \softline
1845}{\plain \fs24 , ed. Harold I. Shapiro (Oxford: Clarendon, 1972).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Vol. 3: on spine,  RUSKIN. / MS LETTERS. J.R. / }{\plain \fs24 \scaps VENICE, ETC.}{\plain \fs24  / 1851.-1852. / \softline
}{\plain \fs24 \scaps BOUND. 1889.}{\plain \fs24    The contents of this volume are published as }{\plain \fs24 \ul Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s Letters from Venice, 1851-1852}{\plain \fs24 , ed. John Lewis Bradley (New Haven: Yale University Press, 1955).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Vol. 4: on spine,  RUSKIN. / MS LETTERS. J.R. / }{\plain \fs24 \scaps SCOTLAND.}{\plain \fs24  / 1853. / }{\plain \fs24 \scaps BOUND.}{\plain \fs24  1889.  \softline
This contains, in addition to letters to his parents, three of Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s letters to Miss Mitford (1854?).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Vol. 5: on spine,  RUSKIN. / MS LETTERS. J.R. (M.R.) / }{\plain \fs24 \scaps SWITZERLAND, N. ITALY. \softline
BOULOGNE, IRELAND, BONNEVILLE, LUCERNE.}{\plain \fs24  / 1858.-1861. (1867.) / }{\plain \fs24 \scaps BOUND. 1889.}{\plain \fs24    \softline
This volume is the main source for John Ruskin, }{\plain \fs24 \ul Letters from the Continent, 1858}{\plain \fs24 , ed. John Hayman 
(Toronto, Buffalo, and London: University of Toronto Press, 1982), and an important source for }{\plain \fs24 \ul The \softline
Winnington Letters: John Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s Correspondence with Margaret Alexis Bell and the Children of \softline
Winnington Hall}{\plain \fs24 , ed. Van Akin Burd (Cambridge, Mass.: Belknap Press of Harvard University Press, \softline
1969). As mentioned earlier, this volume also holds letters to Ruskin from his mother of 1867, and \softline
there is one of 1864.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Vol. 6: on spine,  RUSKIN. / MS LETTERS. J.R. / }{\plain \fs24 \scaps LUCERNE, MILAN, MORNEX, \softline
GENEVA, ANNECY. WINNINGTON. CHAMOUNI, GENEVA. WINNINGTON.}{\plain \fs24  / 1862.-1863. \softline
/ }{\plain \fs24 \scaps BOUND. 1889.}{\plain \fs24   In addition to the pencil note by Wedderburn directing what should be done with the \softline
volume in the event of his death, vol. 6 has a note in ink on a front endpaper:  The letters in this volume \softline
were given by M}{\plain \fs24 \super r}{\plain \fs24  Ruskin to A. Wedderburn, & arranged by him in this book, which was deposited at \softline
Brantwood, after M}{\plain \fs24 \super r}{\plain \fs24  Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s death, by arrangement with M}{\plain \fs24 \super rs}{\plain \fs24  Severn. / A. Wedderburn / Oct. 1900.  \softline
If  him  refers to Ruskin, only this volume testifies to the author{\u8217\'92}s own hand in its arrangement.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab The contents of this volume are an important source for }{\plain \fs24 \ul The Winnington Letters: John Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s \softline
Correspondence with Margaret Alexis Bell and the Children of Winnington Hall}{\plain \fs24 , ed. Van Akin Burd \softline
(Cambridge, Mass.: Belknap Press of Harvard University Press, 1969).}}