{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\froman \fcharset0 \fprq2 Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
}\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstpg\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs24
Contents\par
\tab This bibliography omits description of the early letters in MS XI that contain no poetry, letters \softline
that will be found adequately described in {\plain \fs24 \ul RFL}{\plain \fs24 . Here, rather, are described only the items in MS XI \softline
that are listed chronologically in part 2. The items that were not originally letters are described for the \softline
first time; poetry contained in letters will be found described in }{\plain \fs24 \ul RFL}{\plain \fs24  but are also listed here for the sake \softline
of consistency (and portions of text of those letters containing poetry, portions that were omitted in \softline
}{\plain \fs24 \ul RFL}{\plain \fs24 , are provided). Only physical description is given here, whereas inscriptions regarding dating are \softline
relegated to the individual entries in part 2.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul a}{\plain \fs24 ) No. 11: 20 {\u215\'d7} 13-cm single sheet, pencil.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul b}{\plain \fs24 ) Nos. 22-23: 20.5 {\u215\'d7} 12.2-cm folded sheet, written in pencil on three sides, with  To my Papa  \softline
on address side.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul c}{\plain \fs24 ) No. 33: 20 {\u215\'d7} 12.5-cm folded sheet, written in ink on three sides, with address side blank.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul d}{\plain \fs24 ) Nos. 38 (2 stanzas) and 39 (3 stanzas) in 21 February 1829 letter (described }{\plain \fs24 \ul RFL}{\plain \fs24  177). \softline
No. 38 and no. 39 (}{\plain \fs24 \ul RFL}{\plain \fs24  179-80) are arranged side by side, with a verticle bar between them.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul e}{\plain \fs24 ) No. 39 (4 stanzas) in 10 March 1829 letter (described }{\plain \fs24 \ul RFL}{\plain \fs24  191). As Burd remarks (}{\plain \fs24 \ul RFL}{\plain \fs24  \softline
194 n. 1), Margaret{\u8217\'92}s penciled note on this letter was erased; however, one part remains barely legible, \softline
written below the stanzas of no. 39. Apparently, she is responding to Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s remark that the psalm \softline
(no. 39)  is the same as I wrote it at first  I tried to alter it but I found I could make nothing better of it  \softline
(}{\plain \fs24 \ul RFL}{\plain \fs24  194). The omissions are owing to the writing having been too thoroughly erased for a secure \softline
reading:\par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 The cause of Johns [ . . . (?)] is that in copying from his slate he leaves out the [ . . . (?)] to write on his \softline
slate as fast as his hand can go  he does not seem to hesitate a minute  when it is full put it on paper \softline
without alteration [ . . . (?), }{\plain \fs24 \ul remainder obscured by binding of letter}{\plain \fs24 ]\par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 This letter is followed by the 10 May 1829 letter (no poetry).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul f}{\plain \fs24 ) No. 108 in  March 6th 1830  letter (described }{\plain \fs24 \ul RFL}{\plain \fs24  233, and date corrected to 1831, \softline
although Burd does not make clear that the  1830  error was originally Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s on the letter itself). \softline
Burd provides part of Margaret{\u8217\'92}s postscript, noting that a preceding eleven lines have been erased \softline
(}{\plain \fs24 \ul RFL}{\plain \fs24  235). The erased lines are visible enough for the following conjectural reading:\par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 The house you wrote me to look at is the very house on the left hand side of the ... ...  to Norwood \softline
which you have always so much admired  it belongs to M[ . . . Bramah(?)] they will not let it for less \softline
than [8(?)] weeks [terms(?)] with 3 cows & garden  12 guineas a week without use of vegetables & \softline
cows  I left our address and time we wanted it for and M}{\plain \fs24 \super rs}{\plain \fs24  [Bramah(?)] has just called  I think the [ . . . \softline
(?)] more than we need [ . . . (?)] but I shall be glad to do what you wish  of course the milk & \softline
vegetables are worth a good deal\par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 For further discussion about renting this house, see }{\plain \fs24 \ul RFL}{\plain \fs24  246, 247 n. 3, 249. This letter is followed by \softline
letters of 21 February (one by John and one by Margaret), 28 February, 14 March, 21 March 1831 \softline
(no poetry).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul g}{\plain \fs24 ) No. 118a: 20 {\u215\'d7} 12.5-cm folded sheet, written in ink on two sides, with recto of address leaf \softline
blank, and verso of address leaf inscribed  To my Papa / from J. R. / aged 12{\u188\'bc}.  See MS IA,  
Content,  }{\plain \fs24 \ul i}{\plain \fs24 , for a probable missing companion folded sheet for this manuscript. Followed by letters of \softline
14 January, 20 February, 27 February, 4 March 1832; 15 January 1833 (no poetry).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul h}{\plain \fs24 ) No. 180, prose section on Chamouni, as printed in }{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24 , 2:380-82. This is written in \softline
Margaret Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s hand in ink on the 20 {\u215\'d7} 25.5-cm, blue paper that Ruskin used for letters after 1832. \softline
The editors of the Library Edition are correct that the signature  J. R. / fragment from a Journal / 1833  \softline
is in John James{\u8217\'92}s hand. The date may apply either to the Continental journey or to the manuscript \softline
itself. Followed by letter of 22 February 1834 (no poetry).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul i}{\plain \fs24 ) No. 189 in 10 March 1834 letter (described }{\plain \fs24 \ul RFL}{\plain \fs24  282; Burd does not mention a penciled \softline
postscript by Margaret, but it has in any case been erased beyond legibility).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul j}{\plain \fs24 ) No. 194: 17.5 {\u215\'d7} 22-cm booklet, six leaves, in ink. Its binding into MS XI makes it \softline
impossible to determine whether the booklet is sewn but presumably so; otherwise, the middle \softline
signatures would have slipped out. On 1r,  To My Father / Jan.}{\plain \fs24 \super y}{\plain \fs24  1.}{\plain \fs24 \super st}{\plain \fs24 . / 1835.  1v, blank. 2r-6r, poem \softline
(17 stanzas). 6v, in John James{\u8217\'92}s hand,  Johns Poem / 1 Jany 1835. \par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul k}{\plain \fs24 ) No. 198 in 18 February 1835 letter (described }{\plain \fs24 \ul RFL}{\plain \fs24  295). Burd omits Margaret{\u8217\'92}s penciled \softline
note at the top of the first page and between columns on other pages: \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 My Dearest John I have your two last letters and thank you My own love for them   I do I must think \softline
you have no small regard even for me and our boy must be loved I think by all who know any thing of \softline
him and how much then by his father thank god he has at present no cough and I might almost say the \softline
same of myself--\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Mr Hopkenson [}{\plain \fs24 \ul sic, spelled  Hopkinson  elsewhere in}{\plain \fs24  RFL] sent out a fly yesterday [see }{\plain \fs24 \ul RFL}{\plain \fs24  \softline
304] which is pronoun[ced . . . (?), }{\plain \fs24 \ul rest of line obscured by binding of letter}{\plain \fs24 ] Mary too says it looks \softline
very respectable you know I am no judge\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab I will write more particularly in my next  I do not like to trouble you either to read or rub out \softline
pencil  I am much gratified by your attention about this same carriage  Mr Telford called this morning in \softline
his way to town  I was not up  Mary saw him but could not make him [Hear(?)]  this of Johns was \softline
written without copy [He cries must send by next afternoons(?)]\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab \tab [ . . . (?)] My Dearest more than Dear[ . . . (?)] yours MR\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul l}{\plain \fs24 ) No. 199 in 11 March 1835 letter (described }{\plain \fs24 \ul RFL}{\plain \fs24  308).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul m}{\plain \fs24 ) Nos. 201 and 200 (fair-copied in that order): 19 {\u215\'d7} 25-cm booklet, four leaves, with pp. 1-7 numbered by Ruskin, written in ink. Its binding into MS XI makes it impossible to determine whether \softline
the booklet is sewn. Pp. 1-3,  My Dearest Father.  (no. 201); pp. 3-7, no. 200. On address leaf \softline
(unnumbered p. 8)  To my Father / On his Birthday / May 10}{\plain \fs24 \super th}{\plain \fs24 . 1835 / [and in John James{\u8217\'92}s hand,] \softline
Domecqs Vineyards. \par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul n}{\plain \fs24 ) No. 224 in 27 February 1836 letter (described }{\plain \fs24 \ul RFL}{\plain \fs24  321). Followed by letters of 5 and 10 \softline
March, and two other letters of March 1835 (see }{\plain \fs24 \ul RFL}{\plain \fs24  335-45; each of these is numbered at the top \softline
[by John James?], i.e.,  No. 1,   No. 2,   No. 3,  and  No. 4 ). Next follow letters of 19, 25, and 29 \softline
March, and 20 and 24 December 1836.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul o}{\plain \fs24 ) No. 247 in 30 December 1836 letter (described }{\plain \fs24 \ul RFL}{\plain \fs24  397). Followed by letters of 10 \softline
January, 26 February, and 15 March 1837.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul p}{\plain \fs24 ) No. 254: a 20 {\u215\'d7} 25-cm leaf plus a 20 {\u215\'d7} 14.5-cm leaf, which together probably form a \softline
folded sheet, the second leaf having been cut across the bottom--the binding obscuring whether the 
leaves are attached. On address side,  My Dear Father / May 10.}{\plain \fs24 \super th}{\plain \fs24  1837.  Notated by John James on \softline
address side,  Johns poetical Epistle / on my Birthday / 1837 / from Oxford,  and on first page,  \softline
Birthday.  Followed by letter of 19 January 1838.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul q}{\plain \fs24 ) No. 205: two 20 {\u215\'d7} 25-cm leaves, probably forming a folded sheet, but the binding obscures \softline
whether the leaves are attached. Obviously a rough draft, the text is closely written in varying tints of ink \softline
and with different pens, probably reflecting successive stages of composition between July and October \softline
during the 1835 tour of the Continent. The prose letter that Ruskin started to write on 1r is scored \softline
through and a verse letter started beneath it. The verse continues, in very densely packed single \softline
columns, to the very bottom of 2v. The concluding lines are wrapped around to the top of 1r, where \softline
they are inserted between the scored-through lines of the original prose letter. On 4r, Ruskin also \softline
scored through lines of Greek (perhaps taken from Thucydides, whom Ruskin mentions studying in the \softline
poem). This was probably a prior use of the sheet, since the Greek runs upside down to the poem{\u8217\'92}s \softline
text.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab No. 205 is followed by Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s letter to J. C. Loudon of September 1838 (printed }{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24 , \softline
36:15-17); Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s letters to his father of 21 August 1841 (}{\plain \fs24 \ul RFL}{\plain \fs24  678-79), and of 5 December 1839 \softline
(}{\plain \fs24 \ul RFL}{\plain \fs24  631-32); Margaret{\u8217\'92}s letter to John James of 5 December 1839 (}{\plain \fs24 \ul RFL}{\plain \fs24  632-33); a copy in John \softline
James{\u8217\'92}s hand of Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s 1 August 1842 letter to W. L. Brown (printed in part, }{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24 , 2:223n.); \softline
Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s letter to his father of 3 August 1841 (}{\plain \fs24 \ul RFL}{\plain \fs24  677-78); a copy in Margaret{\u8217\'92}s hand of two letters \softline
(apparently both copied at the same time), one of 20 December 1843 to W. L. Brown (}{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24 , 4:390-93), and the second of 10 March 1844 to Osborne Gordon (}{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24 , 3:665-67).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab The following sections of this volume, containing letters from 1847 and afterward, are not listed \softline
here, as being beyond the scope of this bibliography.}}