{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f230\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f231\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f233\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f234\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f235\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f236\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f237\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f238\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f250\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f251\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f253\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f254\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f255\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f256\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f257\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}
{\f258\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 \styrsid16456314 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \ssemihidden \styrsid7425184 footnote text;}}{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid7425184\rsid16456314}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 11.0.5604;}{\info
{\title <definition>}{\author  }{\operator  }{\creatim\yr2005\mo8\dy27\hr8\min29}{\revtim\yr2005\mo8\dy27\hr8\min43}{\version2}{\edmins2}{\nofpages4}{\nofwords649}{\nofchars3703}{\*\company Southeastern Louisiana University}{\nofcharsws4344}{\vern24689}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct
\asianbrkrule\rsidroot16456314\newtblstyruls\nogrowautofit \fet0{\*\ftnsep \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid7425184 \chftnsep 
\par }}{\*\ftnsepc \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid7425184 \chftnsepc 
\par }}{\*\aftnsep \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid7425184 \chftnsep 
\par }}{\*\aftnsepc \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid7425184 \chftnsepc 
\par }}\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\sl480\slmult1
\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid16456314 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f2\fs22\insrsid16456314\charrsid7425184 <definition>
\par Defining the corpus ought to be the first thing.
\par Major manuscript
\par Red Book
\par definitions \u8594\'3f juvenilia vs professional \u8594\'3f cross writing
\par }{\f2\fs22\insrsid7425184\charrsid7425184 
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid7425184 {\f2\fs22\insrsid7425184\charrsid7425184 
The only extensive loss of the earlier Ruskin family writing that can now be determined, besides gaps in the family letters, is half of a rough-draft notebook of Ruskin\rquote s poetry, called MS VI, and this destructio
n occurred in the course of the notebook\rquote s composition in 1830\endash 
31 and probably by Ruskin himself. The only member of the family ever to express reservations about the value of writing was Margaret, who on at least three occasions, in 1829 and 1831, and 1833, attempted to \'93stop [John\rquote s] rhyming\'94
 or at least control its direction (}{\i\f2\fs22\insrsid7425184\charrsid7425184 RFL}{\f2\fs22\insrsid7425184\charrsid7425184  224, 187), and who repeatedly deprecated her own letters: \'93
Never my Dearest [husband] judge of my feelings by my letters. . . . I cannot bear to write nor that you should have the trouble of reading much of such scrawls as I must fill my paper with if I were filling it\'94 (}{
\i\f2\fs22\insrsid7425184\charrsid7425184 RFL}{\f2\fs22\insrsid7425184\charrsid7425184  186). Margaret did not prevail. Ruskin\rquote s response to his mother\rquote s attempts to check his rhyming was stubbornly to persist in writing poetry\emdash 
poems that hotly record his feelings about her interference, that with psychological insight explore the motives of his mother\rquote 
s reservations, and that raise protests against the conventional evangelicalism she embraced. These poem fragments were saved\emdash if often only in draft form and not in Ruskin\rquote 
s exquisite fair-copy notebooks, from which such angry and sarcastic poems were usually (but not always) excluded. Despite the careful preservation even of such painful writing, these were among the kind of poems that were banned 
from the earlier editions and that, until now, remain largely unpublished. They give substance to the shadowy dissonances struck in Ruskin\rquote s attempt to make peace with his parents, }{\i\f2\fs22\insrsid7425184\charrsid7425184 Praeterita}{
\f2\fs22\insrsid7425184\charrsid7425184 \emdash his protests \'93that I had nothing to love,\'94 \'93that, when affection did come, it came with violence utterly rampant and unmanageable,\'94 and that \'93
the ceaseless authority exercised over my youth left me, when cast out at last into the world, unable for some time to do more than drift with its vortices.\'94 Although, in the manuscripts, these \'93calamities\'94 are \'93equally dominant\'94 with the 
\'93blessings\'94 that }{\i\f2\fs22\insrsid7425184\charrsid7425184 Praeterita}{\f2\fs22\insrsid7425184\charrsid7425184  on the whole tends to uphold (}{\i\f2\fs22\insrsid7425184\charrsid7425184 Works}{\f2\fs22\insrsid7425184\charrsid7425184 , 35:43
\endash 46), in the selections chosen for the first editions of the youthful writing, the blessings of childhood were made to outweigh its difficulties.
\par \tab Margaret\rquote s letters, too, despite her self-deprecation, were as carefully preserved by the family as John and John James\rquote s productions, although the later provenance of her manuscripts sometimes formed a special case. In the late 1880s
 and afterward, when the manuscripts at Brantwood were arranged and bound with the aid of Alexander Wedderburn, Margaret\rquote s earlier letters were not necessarily treated differently than John James\rquote s (Bem L 1\endash 4; see }{
\i\f2\fs22\insrsid7425184\charrsid7425184 RBB}{\f2\fs22\insrsid7425184\charrsid7425184  60, and Sotheby }{\i\f2\fs22\insrsid7425184\charrsid7425184 Cat}{\f2\fs22\insrsid7425184\charrsid7425184 . 1931, 9 [lots 41,
 43]); however, the handsome blue-morocco and gilt volumes housing Ruskin\rquote s letters naturally identified his early writing most closely with his father (MS XI).}{\f2\fs22\super\insrsid7425184\charrsid7425184 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid7425184 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid7425184 \chftn }{\insrsid7425184  Throughout this edition, }{
\i\insrsid7425184 MS}{\insrsid7425184  followed by a roman numeral refers to the major manuscripts listed in the descriptive bibliography, in part 2. }{\i\insrsid7425184 No.}{\insrsid7425184 
 followed by an arabic numeral refers to the chronological listing of individual poems and prose pieces, in part 1. See below, \'93The Design of This Edition.\'94}}}{\f2\fs22\insrsid7425184\charrsid7425184 
 In the subsequent manuscript sales of the 1930s, Ruskin\rquote s letters to his father went to Yale\rquote s Beinecke Library, while his parents\rquote  letters went to the Ruskin Galleries at Bembridge, Isle of Wight\emdash with Margaret\rquote 
s later letters taking a more circuitous path than other family manuscripts (Bem B VI; see }{\i\f2\fs22\insrsid7425184\charrsid7425184 RBB}{\f2\fs22\insrsid7425184\charrsid7425184  126\endash 29). The juvenilia and youthful writing, Ruskin\rquote 
s notebooks and other manuscripts apart from the letters, have ended up divided among collections primarily at Yale, Princeton, and the Pierpont Morgan libraries, and to a lesser extent at the Coniston M
useum and the Lancaster University Ruskin Library (the latter formerly the Bembridge Galleries collection), the Huntington Library, and the Ruskin Library in Tokyo. The wide dispersal and consequent availability of the early Ruskin family manuscripts have
 proved consequential for scholarship. It was at least partly owing to Helen Gill Viljoen\rquote s inability to gain access to Margaret\rquote 
s letters, for example, that her insights into the relationship between father and son have proved more memorable than her analysis of Margaret\rquote s character (}{\i\f2\fs22\insrsid7425184\charrsid7425184 RSH}{\f2\fs22\insrsid7425184\charrsid7425184 
 243 n. 27; }{\i\f2\fs22\insrsid7425184\charrsid7425184 RBB}{\f2\fs22\insrsid7425184\charrsid7425184  180\endash 81), while her intensive study of the juvenilia was aided by so many of those manuscripts having been acquired by American libraries.
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid16456314 {\f2\fs22\insrsid16456314\charrsid7425184 </definition>
\par }}