{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f230\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f231\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f233\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f234\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f235\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f236\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f237\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f238\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f250\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f251\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f253\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f254\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f255\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f256\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f257\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}
{\f258\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 \styrsid6649990 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \ssemihidden \styrsid15664621 footnote text;}}{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid2850084\rsid6649990\rsid15664621\rsid16599163}{\*\generator Microsoft Wo
rd 11.0.5604;}{\info{\title THE DESIGN OF THIS EDITION}{\author  }{\operator  }{\creatim\yr2005\mo8\dy27\hr8\min49}{\revtim\yr2005\mo8\dy27\hr9\min6}{\version4}{\edmins3}{\nofpages8}{\nofwords1470}{\nofchars8383}
{\*\company Southeastern Louisiana University}{\nofcharsws9834}{\vern24689}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct
\asianbrkrule\rsidroot6649990\newtblstyruls\nogrowautofit \fet0{\*\ftnsep \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15664621 \chftnsep 
\par }}{\*\ftnsepc \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15664621 \chftnsepc 
\par }}{\*\aftnsep \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15664621 \chftnsep 
\par }}{\*\aftnsepc \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15664621 \chftnsepc 
\par }}\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\sl480\slmult1
\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid6649990 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f2\fs22\insrsid6649990\charrsid16599163 THE DESIGN OF THIS EDITION
\par \tab The edition is divided in two parts. Part 1 presents a revised and comprehensive chronology of all known individual prose and poetry pieces\emdash published or unpublished, extant or lost\emdash 
contained in the major early manuscripts, preserved on stray sheets elsewhe
re, or known at least by title. Next, the whereabouts and publication (if any) of each item is identified. Each item is then followed by a note justifying its dating, and discussing its sources and compositional history\emdash 
more or less lengthily, depending on
 the complexity of the work. Part 1 also selectively prints texts of works that are either previously unpublished or published with such invasive emendations by earlier editors as to justify a new text. Where silent editorial emendations in existing print
ed texts are localized or minor, a textual note summarizing the differences between the manuscript and printed text is deemed sufficient.
\par \tab Part 2 presents a revised and comprehensive descriptive bibliography. For each known major manuscript of juvenilia, I 
supply its physical characteristics and provenance, enumerate its contents, and attempt to reconstruct the order and circumstances of its composition\emdash 
that is, the compositional history of the major manuscript, as opposed to that of an individual title contained therein, which is presented in part 1.
\par \tab Throughout this edition, }{\i\f2\fs22\insrsid6649990\charrsid16599163 MS}{\f2\fs22\insrsid6649990\charrsid16599163  followed by a roman numeral refers to the manuscripts described in part 2; }{\i\f2\fs22\insrsid6649990\charrsid16599163 no}{
\f2\fs22\insrsid6649990\charrsid16599163 . followed by an arabic numeral refers to individual items in part 1.
\par \tab I do not attempt to list Ruskin\rquote s drawings, better left to the expertise of art historians. In part 2, I do include, however, descriptions of Ruskin\rquote s first two sketchbooks (MSS VIIIA, VIIIB), dating from 1831\endash 
32, since the logic of the edition demands that they be included in part 2 as major early manuscripts. Their inclusion is necessitated, moreover, by the prose writings contained in one of them.
\par \tab In part 1, I also omit the letters published in }{\i\f2\fs22\insrsid6649990\charrsid16599163 RFL}{\f2\fs22\insrsid6649990\charrsid16599163 , which the reader may easily compare against the chronology. I do, on a few occasions in 
part 1 in connection with other items, dispute Burd\rquote s dating of a letter; and, in part 2, where MS XI is described, which contains letters, I have been able to supply portions of some letters for the first time, portions that were omitted from }{
\i\f2\fs22\insrsid6649990\charrsid16599163 RFL}{\f2\fs22\insrsid6649990\charrsid16599163 . All the poems printed in }{\i\f2\fs22\insrsid6649990\charrsid16599163 RFL}{\f2\fs22\insrsid6649990\charrsid16599163 , as a matter of course, will be found lis
ted in the chronology, part 1.
\par \tab My editorial principles governing the various segments of parts 1 and 2 are explained in greater detail below. First, a broad survey of Ruskin\rquote s early writing will help to orient the reader.
\par }{\f2\fs22\insrsid16599163\charrsid16599163 
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid15664621 {\f2\fs22\insrsid15664621\charrsid16599163 THE DESIGN OF PART 1,
\par \'93COMPLETE CHRONOLOGY AND SELECTED TEXTS
\par OF RUSKIN\rquote S WRITINGS, 1826\endash 38\'94
\par \tab Much can be learned from the proper ordering of the notebooks\rquote  contents, so long as one remains aware that a given notebook may include several sequences from differing times and that the overall, day-to-day sequence of Ruskin\rquote 
s activities must be reconstructed from his simultaneous use of several notebooks. For these reasons, Cook and Wedderburn were wise to pair Collingwood\rquote s descriptive bibliography of the major manuscripts with the \'93Chronology\'94
 of the individual poems that the manuscripts contain. Accor
dingly, I have gratefully adopted their fundamental design, by pairing a complete chronology of the individual items of juvenilia (part 1) with a descriptive bibliography of the major manuscripts (part 2). I have revised and expanded the chronology beyond
 a merely enumerative list of poetry titles like Cook and Wedderburn\rquote s, to comprise the nearly three hundred items of poetry as well as prose through 1838, each item annotated by a justification of its position in the sequence.
\par \tab  The manuscript notebooks by themselves give a perplexing impression of Ruskin\rquote 
s activities, since he wrote in a given notebook at many different times, spread in some cases over years, and he worked with more than one notebook simultaneously. One\rquote s head reels in leafing through the 
manuscript notebooks, trying to discern a sequence in Ruskin\rquote s interests and developing literary activity. Notebooks starting with his careful but childish pencil print lettering, used for his \'93Harry and Lucy\'94 and earliest poems of 1826
\endash 28, might also contain ink and pencil script used for drafts of sermons and mineralogical \'93articles\'94
 of a considerably later time. A range of one to eight years is possible for his use of any single notebook. Even wider parameters characterize MSS IA, X, and XI, which are no
t notebooks already bound when Ruskin first used them but collections of loose manuscripts compiled and bound in later years by Alexander Wedderburn.
\par \tab What is more confusing, the notebooks\rquote  contents are not always sequential. Although Ruskin seems usually to have placed his initial entry in a notebook\rquote 
s first pages, frequently even providing a title page, he at various times copied groups of poems in the middle, and returned years later and drafted new projects starting at the opposite end from, and upside 
down to, the text at the beginning. The texts coming from opposite ends often meet, and in some cases the new text extends over top of the old\emdash 
Ruskin either erasing part of the old text to accommodate the new, or running the new text into whatever marginal
 spaces were left over. Other available gaps here and there were filled at almost any time. In another procedure, causing a conundrum that Dearden successfully unraveled in the 1830 diary (}{\i\f2\fs22\insrsid15664621\charrsid16599163 TLC}{
\f2\fs22\insrsid15664621\charrsid16599163 , 10\endash 14), Ruskin would leave gaps to fill in later, but, discovering he had allowed insufficient space, he would fill the gap and continue the inserted text elsewhere in the notebook.
\par \tab The task of ordering the notebooks\rquote  contents involves an exacting and elaborate game of cross-referencing. Each poem or prose item takes its place on a conceptual grid, its position fixed by vectors converging from various determinations
\emdash Ruskin\rquote s own dates when available, the item\rquote s placement in a notebook vis-\'e0-vis other datable pieces, references to it in datable family letters, and its
 source in books the family is known to have bought or read at a certain time. With these items fixed, a story gradually emerges of how and when an entire notebook was used, and this story can in turn inform us both about individual items that cannot be d
ated by any other method and about the simultaneous evolution of other notebooks. Fortunately, substantial sections of some notebooks were composed more or less sequentially\emdash 
most importantly, those like MSS II, VI, and VIII, in which Ruskin entered rough dr
afts of his work and which therefore preserve a successive record of his compositions. The sequences in the rough-draft notebooks also became convoluted in certain places, however\emdash extremely so, in MS VIII\emdash 
requiring meticulous interpretation provided in parts 1 and 2.
\par \tab In part 1, each entry begins with an item\rquote s title, followed by its most precise known date, its manuscript source, publication history, and a note discussing the evidence for dating, compositional history, and sources. Texts follow for those p
oems and prose works I have chosen to publish.
\par 
\par The Scope of the Chronology
\par \tab The chronology begins with the earliest known compositions\emdash those of 1826, putting aside possibly earlier drawings and \'93signatures\'94 on the flyleaves of books, and Ruskin\rquote s first \'93letter\'94 of 1823.}{
\f2\fs22\super\insrsid15664621\charrsid16599163 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid15664621 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\f2\super\insrsid15664621\charrsid2850084 \chftn }{\f2\insrsid15664621\charrsid2850084  See, e.g., the penciled drawings and \'93signatures\'94 in Ruskin\rquote s childhood copies of Maria Edgeworth\rquote s }{\i\f2\insrsid15664621\charrsid2850084 Frank}{
\f2\insrsid15664621\charrsid2850084  and Aesop\rquote s }{\i\f2\insrsid15664621\charrsid2850084 Fables}{\f2\insrsid15664621\charrsid2850084  (described in Viljoen, }{\i\f2\insrsid15664621\charrsid2850084 Sharp Collection}{
\f2\insrsid15664621\charrsid2850084 , 6, 7 [items 2, 5b]), and in a book }{\i\f2\insrsid15664621\charrsid2850084 Little Jack}{\f2\insrsid15664621\charrsid2850084  (listed in \'93Adams Collection,\'94 317). Ruskin\rquote s first \'93letter,\'94
 written by his mother from his dictation on 15 March 1823 and signed by himself in very awkward capital letters, is printed in Collingwood, }{\i\f2\insrsid15664621\charrsid2850084 Life}{\f2\insrsid15664621\charrsid2850084 , 18\endash 19?; }{
\i\f2\insrsid15664621\charrsid2850084 Works}{\f2\insrsid15664621\charrsid2850084  1:xxvi, n. 3; and }{\i\f2\insrsid15664621\charrsid2850084 RFL}{\f2\insrsid15664621\charrsid2850084  127\endash 28. The autograph letter itself is reproduced in Dearden, \'93
The Ruskin Galleries at Bembridge School, Isle of Wight,\'94 pl. III.}}}{\f2\fs22\insrsid15664621\charrsid16599163 
 The chronology extends through 1838, thereby encompassing all the individual items contained in the major manuscripts. Items are grouped by year and, insofar as c
an be determined, arranged chronologically within the year, according to the earliest known date\emdash that is, the date of an item\rquote s draft, if known, rather than its fair copy or publication.
\par \tab The choice of inclusive dates to frame the chronology, 1826\endash 38, has 
been governed by the contents of the major manuscript notebooks. It has proved prudent to extend the chronology from the earliest known compositions through the latest items contained in the major manuscripts, although by 1838 Ruskin had produced work cer
tainly too mature to be regarded as juvenilia, such as }{\i\f2\fs22\insrsid15664621\charrsid16599163 The Poetry of Architecture}{\f2\fs22\insrsid15664621\charrsid16599163 
 (no. 255). Since Ruskin returned to his early notebooks long after their initial childhood use, appropriating available leaves to draft such comparatively sophisticated pieces as \'93Marcolini\'94 (no. 241) and the \'93
Essay on the Relative Dignity of the Studies of Painting and Music . . .\'94 (no. 270), the evidence for dating these later items needs to be in place in part 1, in order to decode the manuscript notebooks comprehensively in
 part 2. As it has turned out, some work by the emerging critic and prose writer, such as the \'93Essay on . . . Painting and Music\'94 and the \'93Chronicles of St. Bernard\'94
 (no. 216), is as problematic to date as work by the juvenile poet, although Cook and Wedderburn\rquote s (and the elder Ruskin\rquote s) dates for this youthful criticism have always been taken for granted.
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid6649990 {\f2\fs22\insrsid15664621\charrsid16599163 \tab 
Some works are listed that have been lost altogether, but whose titles and dates remain recoverable, especially from MS VI. These deserve to be listed and annotated for what they can tell us about Ruskin\rquote s interests and compositional habits.
\par }{\f2\fs22\insrsid16599163\charrsid16599163 
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid16599163 {\f2\fs22\insrsid16599163\charrsid16599163 
\par THE DESIGN OF PART 2,
\par \'93DESCRIPTIVE BIBLIOGRAPHY
\par OF RUSKIN\rquote S EARLY MANUSCRIPT NOTEBOOKS\'94
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid6649990 {\f2\fs22\insrsid16599163\charrsid16599163 \tab In part 2, each
 major manuscript entry begins with its designation by roman numeral; its location (when appropriate, using the abbreviations listed at the front of this book), along with any specialized cataloging information; and its inclusive dates of composition. The
se opening identifications are followed by three discursive sections: (}{\i\f2\fs22\insrsid16599163\charrsid16599163 a}{\f2\fs22\insrsid16599163\charrsid16599163 ) provenance; (}{\i\f2\fs22\insrsid16599163\charrsid16599163 b}{
\f2\fs22\insrsid16599163\charrsid16599163 ) physical description, and discusssion of any special circumstances that affected the manuscript\rquote s composition or compilation; and (}{\i\f2\fs22\insrsid16599163\charrsid16599163 c}{
\f2\fs22\insrsid16599163\charrsid16599163 ) contents, listed in their sequential order (not necessarily the same as the contents\rquote  compositional order, which is accounted for in part 1).
\par }}