{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\froman \fcharset0 \fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss \fcharset0 \fprq2 Arial Unicode MS;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
{\s1 \qj _26;}
{\s2 \qj\fi-720\li1440\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _25;}
{\s3 \qj\li2160\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _24;}
{\s4 \qj\li2880\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _23;}
{\s5 \qj\li3600\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _22;}
{\s6 \qj\li4320\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _21;}
{\s7 \qj\li5040\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _20;}
{\s8 \qj\li5760\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _19;}
{\s9 \qj\li6480\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _18;}
{\s10 \qj\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _17;}
{\s11 \qj\fi-720\li1440\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _16;}
{\s12 \qj\li2160\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _15;}
{\s13 \qj\li2880\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _14;}
{\s14 \qj\li3600\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _13;}
{\s15 \qj\li4320\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _12;}
{\s16 \qj\li5040\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _11;}
{\s17 \qj\li5760\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _10;}
{\s18 \qj\li6480\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _9;}
{\s19 \qj\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _8;}
{\s20 \qj\fi-720\li1440\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _7;}
{\s21 \qj\li2160\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _6;}
{\s22 \qj\li2880\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _5;}
{\s23 \qj\li3600\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _4;}
{\s24 \qj\li4320\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _3;}
{\s25 \qj\li5040\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _2;}
{\s26 \qj\li5760\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _1;}
{\s27 \qj\li6480\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _;}
{\*\cs28 \additive Default Para;}
}\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstpg\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs24
{\plain \fs24 \f1 Hand\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab MS I is written entirely in large penciled print, more childish than that in any other \softline
Red Book; nonetheless, Ruskin was already carefully imitating published books by \softline
justifying the margins; devising a title page, frontispiece, and colophon; labeling his \softline
drawings as {\u8220\'93}plates{\u8221\'94}; and filling out the volume with the MS I poetry anthology, which he \softline
entitled {\u8220\'93}Poetry.{\u8221\'94}\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 Composition and Sources\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab MS I shows more uniform control over the entirety of its contents than tended to be \softline
the case in later Red Books, which grew more miscellaneous with successive uses at \softline
different times. For example, the title page appears more nearly to serve for the entire Red \softline
Book than is the case in MS III and MS IIIA, Red Books that likewise begin with volumes \softline
of {\u8220\'93}Harry and Lucy,{\u8221\'94} but that also contain much else altogether unrelated to the \softline
Edgeworthian narrative. In the case of MS I, although Ruskin filled out the end of the \softline
volume with the MS I poetry anthology, his choices for the miscellany do not appear \softline
entirely haphazard. The first of these poems, {\u8220\'93}When furious up from mines the water \softline
pours,{\u8221\'94} which condenses a portion of }{\plain \fs24 \i\f1 The Botanic Garden}{\plain \fs24 \f1  by Erasmus Darwin, can be \softline
viewed as a continuing the Enlightenment spirit of the immediately preceding {\u8220\'93}Harry and \softline
Lucy . . . vol. 1,{\u8221\'94} which imitates works by Maria Edgeworth and Jeremiah Joyce. The last \softline
of the poems in the anthology, {\u8220\'93}On the Rainbow: In Blank Verse,{\u8221\'94} complements a drawing \softline
featuring {\u8220\'93}a rainbow{\u8221\'94} at the start of MS I (see Drawing, {\u8220\'93}Harry and Lucy . . . vol. 1{\u8221\'94}: \softline
frontispiece). The rainbow drawing, moreover, could refer to Harry{\u8217\'92}s vision of the Witch of \softline
the Alps at the end of {\u8220\'93}Harry and Lucy . . . vol. 1.{\u8221\'94} (Of course, the rainbow could have \softline
been added to the {\u8220\'93}frontispiece{\u8221\'94} as an afterthought. We cannot know for certain which \softline
rainbow suggested the other or in what order, but it is at least reasonable to suggest that \softline
Ruskin crafted the contents in order to frame the book with the theme of the rainbow as \softline
both promise and closure.)\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab Another sign of control over the entirety of the contents appears at the end of the \softline
Red Book, on p. 106, where Ruskin placed a colophon: {\u8220\'93}The end / hernhill / fountain street \softline
/ <end of the poems> / juvenile library fountain street.{\u8221\'94} The colophon is followed by \softline
Drawing, Miscellaneous: The Heights of Wisdom and Depths of Folly{\u8212\'97}the concave shape \softline
of the narrow valley appearing to answer to the convex form of the rainbow in the \softline
frontispiece. No other Red Book has a colophon or frontispiece, although MS III and MS \softline
IIIA feature title pages for {\u8220\'93}Harry and Lucy{\u8221\'94} similar to that in MS I.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab The deletion within the colophon (<end of the poems>) may point to how attempts \softline
at symmetry and closure were ongoing decisions. Ruskin may have written {\u8220\'93}end of the \softline
poems{\u8221\'94} and then deleted the phrase to make way for the book{\u8217\'92}s colophon; or he may \softline
have included the phrase as part of the colophon but deleted it as erroneous or misleading \softline
(since the colophon ends the entire book, not just the poems). It is also possible, however, \softline
that the deletion was made by someone else.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 Domestic Scene\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab MS I is also the only Red Book to locate its imaginary publisher, the {\u8220\'93}juvenile \softline
library,{\u8221\'94} in {\u8220\'93}hernhill / fountain street,{\u8221\'94} other Red Books mentioning simply Herne Hill. Could \softline
Ruskin be referring to what }{\plain \fs24 \i\f1 Praeterita}{\plain \fs24 \f1  records as an early memory, the water carts being \softline
filled in front of the house (Ruskin, }{\plain \fs24 \i\f1 Works}{\plain \fs24 \f1  35:21)? In }{\plain \fs24 \i\f1 Praeterita,}{\plain \fs24 \f1  Ruskin leaves unclear \softline
whether he observed the carts from the windows of Herne Hill or of the Hunter Street \softline
house{\u8212\'97}where the family lived prior to Herne Hill, until March 1823 (see Dearden, \softline
}{\plain \fs24 \i\f1 Ruskin's Camberwell,}{\plain \fs24 \f1  1). By the time he first wrote about this memory (in }{\plain \fs24 \i\f1 Fors?}{\plain \fs24 \f1 ) in 18??, \softline
Ruskin might well have confused memories of the two locations; or the colophon itself \softline
might have suggested such a memory to him, when he doubtless reviewed his juvenilia \softline
for those later autobiographical writings. Unfortunately, attempts have been unsuccessful \softline
to gain information about either a Fountain Street or water mains in the vicinities of the two \softline
houses.}}