{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\fswiss \fcharset0 \fprq2 Arial Unicode MS;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
}\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstpg\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs22
\tab From front to back, the sequential order of contents is:\par
\tab 1. Drafts for poems, {\u8220\'93}The Ship{\u8221\'94} (1828) (1r{\u8211\'96}1v), {\u8220\'93}Description of an Afternoon{\u8221\'94} (1v{\u8211\'96}2r), {\u8220\'93}A \softline
Psalm{\u8221\'94} ({\u8220\'93}shall the dust praise thee o my lord{\u8221\'94}) (2r), {\u8220\'93}A Psalm 1st{\u8221\'94} ({\u8220\'93}O blessed is the man who \softline
walks{\u8221\'94}) (2r).\par
\tab 2. Draft for lines 122{\u8211\'96}62 of the first book of {\u8220\'93}Eudosia, or a Poem on the Universe{\u8221\'94} \softline
(2r{\u8211\'96}2v).\par
\tab 3. Draft for  Harry and Lucy,  no. 32 (3r{\u8211\'96}3v).\par
\tab {\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 d}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ) Draft for poems and sermon reports, nos. 36 (partial draft, 3v), 37 (4r), 36 (remainder \softline
of draft, 4r), 40 (4r), 41 (4r{\u8211\'96}5r), 42 (5r), 43 (5r{\u8211\'96}6r), 44 (partial draft, 6r{\u8211\'96}7v), 45 (7v), 44 \softline
(remainder of draft, 8r{\u8211\'96}9r).\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab }{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 e}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ) Draft entitled  a letter  (9r{\u8211\'96}9v). This brief fragment of a conclusion to a letter{\u8211\'96}{\u8211\'96}printed \softline
from this source in }{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 RFL}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  (170){\u8211\'96}{\u8211\'96}has been misidentified and misdated as part of a presentation \softline
for John James{\u8217\'92}s May 1828 birthday. In fact, it is almost certainly draft for the conclusion to a \softline
presentation to John James one year later, a May 1829 birthday letter that has been printed from \softline
its fair copy (}{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 RFL}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  200).\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab }{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 f}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ) Poem fragments, nos. 58 (9v), 59 (9v{\u8211\'96}10r).\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab }{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 g}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ) Draft for  Eudosia,  no. 27, book I, lines 100{\u8211\'96}104 (on lily of valley), lines 163 to end of \softline
book I (on white lily, peony, laurel, and oak), and variants of opening four lines of book II (on pine, \softline
not designated as book II here in MS II) (10r{\u8211\'96}14v).\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab }{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 h}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ) Poem fragment no. 60, probably intended as continuing revision of no. 44 (14v{\u8211\'96}15r).\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab }{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 i}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 ) Undated letter to Mrs. Monro that refers to Mary Richardson and Ruskin noting down \softline
the Reverend Edward Andrews{\u8217\'92}s sermons  in a book at home,  i.e. MS II itself{\u8211\'96}{\u8211\'96}an activity that \softline
can be identified with the first quarter of 1829 (15v{\u8211\'96}16v).}}