{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f230\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f231\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f233\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f234\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f235\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f236\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f237\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f238\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f250\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f251\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f253\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f254\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f255\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f256\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f257\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}
{\f258\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 \styrsid5329177 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}}{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid5329177}{\*\generator Micro
soft Word 11.0.5604;}{\info{\title The System of Title Citation}{\author  }{\operator  }{\creatim\yr2005\mo8\dy27\hr8\min56}{\revtim\yr2005\mo8\dy27\hr8\min57}{\version1}{\edmins1}{\nofpages3}{\nofwords518}{\nofchars2955}
{\*\company Southeastern Louisiana University}{\nofcharsws3467}{\vern24689}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct
\asianbrkrule\rsidroot5329177\newtblstyruls\nogrowautofit \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid5329177 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f2\fs22\insrsid5329177\charrsid5329177 The System of Title Citation
\par \tab All titles in the chronology refer to poems unless a following parenthetical identification specifies prose\emdash poetry forming, by far, the largest portion of the early writing. Prose and poem titles placed in quotation marks are Ruskin\rquote 
s. Untitled poems are cited by their first lines, also in quotation marks, first lines being distinguishable from titles by conventions of capitalization.
\par \tab In his own titles, Ruskin adhered to conventions of capitalization irregularly, so many of his titles would read, if transcribed exactly, like first-line citations. Thus, to distinguish between Ruskin\rquote 
s titles and my first-line citations for untitled works, 
I have found it convenient, for purposes of this chronology, to regularize conventions of spelling, capitalization, and punctuation in his titles. If any ambiguity can have resulted from my regularization of titles\emdash 
for example, the questionable placement of apostrophes, which Ruskin frequently omitted, to form singular or plural possessives\emdash I have striven to avoid misleading the reader by discussing the problem in the item\rquote 
s note, often supplying Ruskin\rquote s title in its original form.
\par \tab In some cases, main titles are followed by alternative titles placed in parentheses, and the alternative is discussed in the item\rquote 
s note. Many titles in parentheses are merely first-line citations, added to distinguish between items to which Ruskin assigned the same or similar titles (e.g., \'93A Sermon\'94 or \'93A Psalm\'94
), these parenthetical first-line citations again being distinguishable from titles by conventions of capitalization. Other titles in parentheses refer to inventions by earlier editors\emdash editorial titles, by which some wor
ks have come to be familiarly known and which therefore need to be available to the reader. In such cases, the reader should recognize that Ruskin\rquote 
s own titles or first-line citations would be far preferable. Collingwood cherished a regrettable affection for sentimental titles, which at the very least can embarrass the actual tone of the work. For example, the prettiness of his title \'93
Moonlight on the Mountains\'94 for the originally untitled no. 147 proves to have been justified only by the editor\rquote s deletion of the draft\rquote s closing stanzas, which depict \'93a gloomy thing\'94
 that reverses the serene tone of the opening stanzas printed by Collingwood. Since such decisions belong to the late-century formation of the myth of Ruskin\rquote s childhood, the editors of the Libra
ry Edition were not always careful to indicate where titles are editorial. Cook and Wedderburn generally enclosed Collingwood\rquote s editorial titles in brackets, but their practice is inconsistent.
\par \tab When I have been forced myself to invent an editorial title for prose and poetry, I distinguish it from other kinds of titles by the omission of quotation marks. These titles are descriptive. Where possible, they are drawn from Ruskin\rquote 
s own habitual way of referring to an item in his letters, although no title can be found inscribed on the manuscript itself, such as his Mineralogical Dictionary (no. 98). Descriptive titles prove necessary where first-line citation is impractical
\emdash for example, in cases where untitled long poems consist of multiple parts, each with its 
own title, such as the Account of a Tour on the Continent (no. 180); or in cases where the texts of poems have been all but obliterated, such as the Satirical Poem on Mr. Rowbotham (no. 145), so that no first-line citation is possible.
\par }}