{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\froman \fcharset0 \fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fmodern \fcharset0 \fprq1 Courier New;}{\f2\fswiss \fcharset0 \fprq2 Arial Unicode MS;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
{\s1 \qj _26;}
{\s2 \qj\fi-720\li1440\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _25;}
{\s3 \qj\li2160\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _24;}
{\s4 \qj\li2880\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _23;}
{\s5 \qj\li3600\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _22;}
{\s6 \qj\li4320\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _21;}
{\s7 \qj\li5040\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _20;}
{\s8 \qj\li5760\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _19;}
{\s9 \qj\li6480\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _18;}
{\s10 \qj\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _17;}
{\s11 \qj\fi-720\li1440\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _16;}
{\s12 \qj\li2160\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _15;}
{\s13 \qj\li2880\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _14;}
{\s14 \qj\li3600\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _13;}
{\s15 \qj\li4320\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _12;}
{\s16 \qj\li5040\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _11;}
{\s17 \qj\li5760\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _10;}
{\s18 \qj\li6480\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _9;}
{\s19 \qj\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _8;}
{\s20 \qj\fi-720\li1440\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _7;}
{\s21 \qj\li2160\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _6;}
{\s22 \qj\li2880\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _5;}
{\s23 \qj\li3600\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _4;}
{\s24 \qj\li4320\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _3;}
{\s25 \qj\li5040\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _2;}
{\s26 \qj\li5760\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _1;}
{\s27 \qj\li6480\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _;}
{\*\cs28 \additive Default Para;}
{\s29 \qj\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 \f1\fs20 footnote tex;}
{\*\cs30 \additive\super footnote ref;}
{\*\ds31 ;}
{\*\ds32 ;}
}\ftnrstcont\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\widowctrl\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstcont\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs24
{\plain \fs24 \f2 \tab January 1826.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f2 \tab In the MS I poetry anthology, Margaret Ruskin wrote {\u8220\'93}Jan 1826{\u8221\'94} at the end of {\u8220\'93}The \softline
Needless Alarm,{\u8221\'94} the fourth poem in the anthology, and before {\u8220\'93}On Papa{\u8217\'92}s Leaving \softline
Home,{\u8221\'94} the fifth poem. Immediately below this, she drew a rule, followed by {\u8220\'93}this book \softline
begun about Sep}{\plain \fs24 \super\f2 t}{\plain \fs24 \f2  or Oct 1826 / finished about Jan}{\plain \fs24 \super\f2 y}{\plain \fs24 \f2  1827{\u8221\'94} (see Facsimile). Since the latter \softline
comment clearly refers to the whole of MS I, W. G. Collingwood took the preceding date, \softline
{\u8220\'93}Jan 1826,{\u8221\'94} as applying to {\u8220\'93}The Needless Alarm{\u8221\'94} in particular and thus as identifying \softline
Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s earliest dated verse known to the editor (}{\plain \fs24 \i\f2 Poems }{\plain \fs24 \f2 [4}{\plain \fs24 \super\f2 o}{\plain \fs24 \f2 ,1891], 1:xxii; }{\plain \fs24 \i\f2 Poems}{\plain \fs24 \f2  [8}{\plain \fs24 \super\f2 o}{\plain \fs24 \f2 , \softline
1891], 1:viii).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f2 \tab In the Library Edition, E. T. Cook and Alexander Wedderburn disagreed, ascribing \softline
priority either to {\u8220\'93}When furious up from mines the water pours,{\u8221\'94} which is {\u8220\'93}poem I{\u8221\'94} in the \softline
MS I poetry anthology, or to {\u8220\'93}Ragland Castle,{\u8221\'94} which is the first poem in another anthology \softline
entitled {\u8220\'93}poetry discriptive{\u8221\'94} in MS III (Ruskin, }{\plain \fs24 \i\f2 Works,}{\plain \fs24 \f2  2:255n; see {\u8220\'93}Wales{\u8221\'94} [poem]). \softline
{\u8220\'93}Ragland Castle,{\u8221\'94} however, more likely belongs to the second half of 1827, when the \softline
family visited Raglan and other sites in Wales. Moreover, the earlier date ascribed to \softline
{\u8220\'93}When furious up from mines the water pours{\u8221\'94} turns on elaborate reasoning that defies \softline
facts. The latter argument assumes, first, that Margaret{\u8217\'92}s note {\u8220\'93}Jan 1826{\u8221\'94} refers to all four \softline
poems preceding the note, not just to {\u8220\'93}The Needless Alarm{\u8221\'94}; second, that the first poem of \softline
this group to be fair-copied{\u8212\'97}{\u8220\'93}When furious up from mines the water pours,{\u8221\'94} or {\u8220\'93}poem \softline
I{\u8221\'94}{\u8212\'97}must necessarily have been the first composed; and, third, that Margaret{\u8217\'92}s date {\u8220\'93}Jan \softline
1826,{\u8221\'94} according to the editors, {\u8220\'93}seems to be the date of the note, and not of any one of \softline
the verses in particular.{\u8221\'94} That is, in this view, {\u8220\'93}Jan 1826{\u8221\'94} applies to the note that follows, \softline
{\u8220\'93}this book begun about Sep}{\plain \fs24 \super\f2 t}{\plain \fs24 \f2  or Oct 1826 / finished about Jan}{\plain \fs24 \super\f2 y}{\plain \fs24 \f2  1827.{\u8221\'94} Thus, this argument \softline
entails a discrepancy in dates, since the editors hazard that {\u8220\'93}perhaps, writing at the\ftnrstcont\pard \fs24
 \softline
beginning of a new year, Mrs. Ruskin made the common error of not altering the old \softline
year{\u8217\'92}s date{\u8221\'94}{\u8212\'97}writing, that is, {\u8220\'93}Jan 1826,{\u8221\'94} but intending {\u8220\'93}Jan 1827{\u8221\'94} (Ruskin, }{\plain \fs24 \i\f2 Works}{\plain \fs24 \f2 , \softline
2:255n).{}{\plain \fs24 \super\f2 1{\footnote \pard \fs24
{\plain \fs24 \super\f2 1}{}{\plain \fs24 \super\f2 }{\plain \fs24 \f2  Cook and Wedderburn appear to leave open the question of whether Margaret{\u8217\'92}s note \softline
about the completion of {\u8220\'93}this book{\u8221\'94} applies also to the two poems following it; see {\u8220\'93}On \softline
Papa{\u8217\'92}s Leaving Home,{\u8221\'94} which they did not publish, and {\u8220\'93}On the Rainbow: In Blank Verse,{\u8221\'94} \softline
which, following Collingwood, they published only in part. See also Ruskin, }{\plain \fs24 \i\f2 Works,}{\plain \fs24 \f2  \softline
2:254{\u8211\'96}55, 529.}}}
}{\plain \fs24 \f2 }{\plain \fs24 \f2 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \f2 \tab Since Cook and Wedderburn{\u8217\'92}s reasoning depends on overruling what Margaret \softline
actually wrote, Collingwood{\u8217\'92}s interpretation seems more convincing{\u8212\'97}namely, that the \softline
date applies to {\u8220\'93}The Needless Alarm{\u8221\'94} but not necessarily to all four of the poems \softline
preceding the note. While {\u8220\'93}The Needless Alarm{\u8221\'94} must have been fair-copied {\u8220\'93}about Jan}{\plain \fs24 \super\f2 y}{\plain \fs24 \f2  \softline
1827{\u8221\'94} along with the other verse at the end of MS I, Margaret would have known if the \softline
poem had been composed a year earlier than the others (and If that was the case, she \softline
may have remembered the date because {\u8220\'93}The Needless Alarm{\u8221\'94} was the first{\u8212\'97}or first 
surviving{\u8212\'97}of Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s New Year{\u8217\'92}s poems; see Discussion). Moreover, this instance of a \softline
parent{\u8217\'92}s annotating a poem with a date earlier than surrounding poems is not unique, \softline
occurring also in MS III (see {\u8220\'93}Glen of Glenfarg{\u8221\'94}: Date), and. in that instance. Cook and \softline
Wedderburn accept, inconsistently, the parent{\u8217\'92}s authority. Finally, it seems implausible \softline
that Margaret would have written 1826 for 1827 without noticing the error, since her note \softline
about the date of the whole of MS I (which is unquestioned) is placed immediately below.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f2 \tab Without following Cook and Wedderburn in their argument for dating {\u8220\'93}The Needless \softline
Alarm{\u8221\'94} to some time after {\u8220\'93}When furious up from mines the water pours,{\u8221\'94} one might, \softline
however, accept their suggestion that Margaret intends {\u8220\'93}Jan 1826{\u8221\'94} to refer to all four \softline
poems preceding her note. This possibility is raised in dating the other three \softline
poems{\u8212\'97}{\u8220\'93}When furious up from mines the water pours,{\u8221\'94} {\u8220\'93}On Scotland,{\u8221\'94} and {\u8220\'93}The Defiance \softline
of War{\u8221\'94}{\u8212\'97}but, again, the interpretation supplants a more obvious and convincing \softline
explanation. Collingwood associated one poem in the MS I poetry anthology, {\u8220\'93}On \softline
Scotland,{\u8221\'94} along with another, {\u8220\'93}Glen of Glenfarg,{\u8221\'94} with the family{\u8217\'92}s visit to Scotland in \softline
1826, which he assumed to have started {\u8220\'93}about the middle of May{\u8221\'94} (}{\plain \fs24 \i\f2 Poems}{\plain \fs24 \f2  [4}{\plain \fs24 \super\f2 o}{\plain \fs24 \f2 ,1891], \softline
1:xxiii; }{\plain \fs24 \i\f2 Poems}{\plain \fs24 \f2  [8}{\plain \fs24 \super\f2 o}{\plain \fs24 \f2 ,1891], 1:ix). We now know, however, that this journey was taken later in \softline
that year{\u8212\'97}a fact consistent with the placement of {\u8220\'93}On Scotland{\u8221\'94} toward the end of MS I, \softline
which was {\u8220\'93}finished about Jan}{\plain \fs24 \super\f2 y}{\plain \fs24 \f2  1827.{\u8221\'94} All the evidence falls into place if Collingwood{\u8217\'92}s \softline
original interpretation is accepted{\u8212\'97}namely, that {\u8220\'93}The Needless Alarm{\u8221\'94} is a year older than \softline
its surrounding poems. This conclusion is also corroborated by internal evidence of the \softline
poem{\u8217\'92}s sources (see Discussion).}}