{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\froman \fcharset0 \fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss \fcharset0 \fprq2 Arial Unicode MS;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
{\s1 \qj _26;}
{\s2 \qj\fi-720\li1440\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _25;}
{\s3 \qj\li2160\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _24;}
{\s4 \qj\li2880\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _23;}
{\s5 \qj\li3600\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _22;}
{\s6 \qj\li4320\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _21;}
{\s7 \qj\li5040\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _20;}
{\s8 \qj\li5760\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _19;}
{\s9 \qj\li6480\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _18;}
{\s10 \qj\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _17;}
{\s11 \qj\fi-720\li1440\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _16;}
{\s12 \qj\li2160\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _15;}
{\s13 \qj\li2880\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _14;}
{\s14 \qj\li3600\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _13;}
{\s15 \qj\li4320\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _12;}
{\s16 \qj\li5040\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _11;}
{\s17 \qj\li5760\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _10;}
{\s18 \qj\li6480\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _9;}
{\s19 \qj\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _8;}
{\s20 \qj\fi-720\li1440\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _7;}
{\s21 \qj\li2160\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _6;}
{\s22 \qj\li2880\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _5;}
{\s23 \qj\li3600\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _4;}
{\s24 \qj\li4320\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _3;}
{\s25 \qj\li5040\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _2;}
{\s26 \qj\li5760\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _1;}
{\s27 \qj\li6480\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _;}
{\*\cs28 \additive Default Para;}
}\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstpg\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs24
{\plain \fs24 \f1 Sources\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab (unrevised)This little tale about a mouse and a dog suggests the influence of Anna \softline
Laetitia Barbauld, whose books are believed to have been in the Ruskin family library, \softline
such as Aiken and Barbauld, }{\plain \fs24 \i\f1 Evenings at Home}{\plain \fs24 \f1  (for Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s copy of the book, see \softline
Viljoen, }{\plain \fs24 \i\f1 Sharp Collection}{\plain \fs24 \f1 , 8, and Note on Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s Boyhood Books). In the editions of \softline
}{\plain \fs24 \i\f1 Evenings at Home}{\plain \fs24 \f1  available to me, I found no tale resembling {\u8220\'93}The Needless Alarm{\u8221\'94} \softline
specifically, although Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s poem does recall the tales generally. The poem lacks Mrs. \softline
Barbauld{\u8217\'92}s conventional closing morals, but even she could occasionally relax this \softline
requirement, such as in {\u8220\'93}The History and Adventures of a Cat,{\u8221\'94} which relates a cat{\u8217\'92}s life \softline
from its own point of view and without didacticism.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab Barbauld was in keeping with Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s other reading and imitative writing of \softline
1826{\u8211\'96}27, her work having been recommended by Richard Lovell Edgeworth (in his \softline
{\u8220\'93}Address to Mothers{\u8221\'94} prefacing later editions of Maria and Richard Edgeworth, }{\plain \fs24 \i\f1 Early \softline
Lessons}{\plain \fs24 \f1 ) as accessible and entertaining reading for younger children. In fact, Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s \softline
MS I poetry anthology reflects a condensation of the Edgeworths{\u8217\'92} recommended program \softline
of reading for children, if also a precocious acceleration of that program. In the anthology, \softline
{\u8220\'93}The Needless Alarm{\u8221\'94} is preceded by {\u8220\'93}When furious up from mines the water pours,{\u8221\'94} \softline
drawn from Joyce, }{\plain \fs24 \i\f1 Scientific Dialogues}{\plain \fs24 \f1 , which Edgeworth recommends for older children. \softline
If the Ruskins strictly followed Edgeworth{\u8217\'92}s advice that children advance by stages \softline
through reading of increasingly difficulty, {\u8220\'93}The Needless Alarm{\u8221\'94} represents his response \softline
to an earlier stage of reading, as compared with the scientific interests represented by \softline
{\u8220\'93}When furious up from mines the water pours{\u8221\'94} (see also Edgeworth, }{\plain \fs24 \i\f1 Frank}{\plain \fs24 \f1 , 7-9; and \softline
Joyce, }{\plain \fs24 \i\f1 Dialogues}{\plain \fs24 \f1 , 9, which likewise suggests that younger readers learn }{\plain \fs24 \i\f1 Evenings at \softline
Home}{\plain \fs24 \f1  before tackling Joyce{\u8217\'92}s scientific lessons).\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 Occasion\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab <start>That {\u8220\'93}The Needless Alarm{\u8221\'94} is earlier than the other poems in its group could \softline
be explained by its {\u8220\'93}Jan 1826{\u8221\'94} notation referring to the occasion of a New Year{\u8217\'92}s gift to his \softline
father, one year earlier, an occasion Margaret would surely remember. This interpretation \softline
is supported by a similar pattern in MS III, the red book containing {\u8220\'93}Harry and Lucy . . . \softline
vol. 2,{\u8221\'94} in which the prose tale is again followed by a group of poems including the \softline
previous year{\u8217\'92}s New Year{\u8217\'92}s poem (see {\u8220\'93}Time: Blank Verse{\u8221\'94}).}}