{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\fswiss \fcharset0 \fprq2 Arial Unicode MS;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
{\s1 \qj _26;}
{\s2 \qj\fi-720\li1440\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _25;}
{\s3 \qj\li2160\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _24;}
{\s4 \qj\li2880\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _23;}
{\s5 \qj\li3600\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _22;}
{\s6 \qj\li4320\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _21;}
{\s7 \qj\li5040\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _20;}
{\s8 \qj\li5760\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _19;}
{\s9 \qj\li6480\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _18;}
{\s10 \qj\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _17;}
{\s11 \qj\fi-720\li1440\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _16;}
{\s12 \qj\li2160\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _15;}
{\s13 \qj\li2880\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _14;}
{\s14 \qj\li3600\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _13;}
{\s15 \qj\li4320\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _12;}
{\s16 \qj\li5040\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _11;}
{\s17 \qj\li5760\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _10;}
{\s18 \qj\li6480\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _9;}
{\s19 \qj\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _8;}
{\s20 \qj\fi-720\li1440\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _7;}
{\s21 \qj\li2160\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _6;}
{\s22 \qj\li2880\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _5;}
{\s23 \qj\li3600\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _4;}
{\s24 \qj\li4320\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _3;}
{\s25 \qj\li5040\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _2;}
{\s26 \qj\li5760\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _1;}
{\s27 \qj\li6480\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _;}
{\*\cs28 \additive Default Para;}
}\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstpg\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs22
Hand\par
\tab MS III reflects some Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s of fledgling uses of pen and ink, first taken up in April \softline
1827, as compared with the earlier MS I and MS IVA, which he wrote entirely in pencil. It was \softline
probably to practice printing with pen and ink that he covered the inside back endboard with \softline
random words and letters.\par
\tab To print {\u8220\'93}Harry and Lucy,{\u8221\'94} Vol. 2 and Poetry Descriptive, he copied his letters in ink \softline
over top of pencil, which remains visible beneath. He continued to rely on pencil for the \softline
drawings in MS III, but not for their legends, which he printed in ink.\par
Collation\par
\tab As W. G. Collingwood remarked, Ruskin worked in differing parts of MS III at widely \softline
differing times. A rough chronology of his use of this Red Book can be sorted out as follows, \softline
incorporating but revising and elaborating on both Collingwood{\u8217\'92}s reconstruction ({\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Poems}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  [4}{\plain \fs22 \super\fs22 o}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , \softline
1891],1:262; }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Poems}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  [8}{\plain \fs22 \super\fs22 o}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , 1891], 1:263; and Ruskin, }{\plain \fs22 \i\fs22 Works}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 , 2:530) and Helen Gill Viljoen{\u8217\'92}s \softline
({\u8220\'93}Dating MSS. of Boyhood,{\u8221\'94} Viljoen Papers, box F). \par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab 1. As indicated by the travel itinerary in {\u8220\'93}Harry and Lucy,{\u8221\'94} Vol. 2, Ruskin may have \softline
begun this {\u8220\'93}Harry and Lucy{\u8221\'94} narrative during an autumn 1827 visit to Wales and Scotland (see \softline
Tours 1826{\u8211\'96}27). He appears originally to have reserved three-quarters of the notebook for \softline
{\u8220\'93}Harry and Lucy,{\u8221\'94} since later pages (pp. 36, 42) retain the penciled indications, {\u8220\'93}chap 6{\u8221\'94} and \softline
{\u8220\'93}chap 7.{\u8221\'94}  The narrative never extended that far, instead ending with the unfulfilled promise, \softline
{\u8220\'93}But I will put them [Harry and Lucy] on to scarthing moor in another chapter.{\u8221\'94} He did, \softline
however, possibly intend the drawings on pp. ??, 34, 37, and 43 to accompany the projected \softline
narrative (see MS III Drawings).\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab 2. At about the same time that he composed {\u8220\'93}Harry and Lucy,{\u8221\'94} Vol. 2, Ruskin \softline
entered{\u8212\'97}farther in the book, following the space left blank for expansion of {\u8220\'93}Harry and \softline
Lucy{\u8221\'94}{\u8212\'97}the anthology Poetry Descriptive. As Viljoen comments, the ink printing used for these \softline
poems resembles that used for {\u8220\'93}Harry and Lucy,{\u8221\'94} Vol. 2, tending to confirm that the two \softline
projects were roughly contemporaneous. Certainly, {\u8220\'93}Wales{\u8221\'94} and {\u8220\'93}Spring: Blank Verse,{\u8221\'94} \softline
included in the anthology, were composed not much earlier than May 1827, and their copies \softline
here occur among poems likely inspired by the Wales and Scotland journey recorded in {\u8220\'93}Harry \softline
and Lucy{\u8221\'94} (e.g., the poems {\u8220\'93}Ragland Castle,{\u8221\'94} {\u8220\'93}Lochleven,{\u8221\'94} {\u8220\'93}The Hill of Kinnoul{\u8221\'94}). \par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab 3. No earlier than the start of 1828, in a smaller, neater print, Ruskin briefly rounded out \softline
{\u8220\'93}Harry and Lucy,{\u8221\'94} Vol. 2, and followed it with the MS III Second Poetry Anthology (second, \softline
that is, after Poetry Descriptive). Ruskin entitled this second anthology {\u8220\'93}POETRY,{\u8221\'94} just as he \softline
had headed the MS I Poetry Anthology {\u8220\'93}Poetry.{\u8221\'94} The anthology included New Year{\u8217\'92}s Poems, \softline
both old and new, so this stage of MS III presumably served as a New Year{\u8217\'92}s present.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab The terminus for the MS III Poetry Anthology is the drawing {\u8220\'93}Ragland Castle When \softline
Newly Built,{\u8221\'94} [Miscellaneous Drawing, MS III]. Nothing indicates whether Ruskin drew the \softline
picture in early 1828, shortly after entering that second anthology of poems, or whether he \softline
carried the anthology up to the pre-existing drawing, perhaps having drawn it in fall/winter 1827 \softline
to accompany the poem {\u8220\'93}Ragland Castle{\u8221\'94} in Poetry Descriptive. \par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab 4. By a year later, Ruskin had returned to MS III to copy {\u8220\'93}The Monastery,{\u8221\'94} his \softline
versification of Scott{\u8217\'92}s novel. Some portion of this poem, probably the later books, can be \softline
dated firmly as early March 1829. To fair-copy the poem, Ruskin used blank pages following 
Poetry Descriptive until, running out of room at the end of the Red Book, he continued the \softline
poem in blank pages that had remained just preceding Poetry Descriptive. He made this clear \softline
by, at the end of book 2 of the poem on p. 80, instructing the reader to {\u8220\'93}go back to page 52 / \softline
}{\plain \fs22 \scaps\fs22 END OF BOOK SECOND}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  / }{\plain \fs22 \scaps\fs22 HERN HILL}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  / }{\plain \fs22 \scaps\fs22 DULWICH}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 .{\u8221\'94}\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab Viljoen believed she detected a steady sophistication in the script for {\u8220\'93}The Monastery,{\u8221\'94} \softline
over the course of its four books, suggesting {\u8220\'93}that [Ruskin] worked at these transcriptions from \softline
early into late 1828{\u8221\'94} ({\u8220\'93}Dating MSS. of Boyhood,{\u8221\'94} Viljoen Papers; she was unaware of the firm \softline
evidence placing some portion of the poem in March 1829, although it is true that Ruskin \softline
might have started the MS III version sometime in 1828). It is unwise to rely on distinctions in \softline
handwriting to date manuscripts so narrowly as a matter of months, since other circumstances \softline
besides practice can affect handwriting. One can hazard with some confidence, however, that \softline
the tiny ink hand (with no pencil outline beneath) for book 1 of {\u8220\'93}The Monastery{\u8221\'94} must be \softline
significantly later than the awkward ink lettering (over top of pencil) for Poetry Descriptive, \softline
which precedes {\u8220\'93}The Monastery.{\u8221\'94} \par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab 5. Around 9 March 1829, at about the same time that he was entering some portion of \softline
{\u8220\'93}The Monastery,{\u8221\'94} Ruskin showed he was attentive to his parents{\u8217\'92} criticism of leaving his \softline
projects unfinished by using blank pages after the MS III Second Poetry Anthology to copy \softline
several recent poems{\u8212\'97}thus forming the MS III Third Poetry Anthology. In so doing, he \softline
scotched any plans to continue {\u8220\'93}Harry and Lucy,{\u8221\'94} Vol. 2, the pencil notations for {\u8220\'93}chap. 6{\u8221\'94} and \softline
{\u8220\'93}chap. 7{\u8221\'94} still remaining to witness to this intention. But, in any case, he had already wrapped \softline
the Second Poetry Anthology around a drawing probably meant for {\u8220\'93}Harry and Lucy.{\u8221\'94}}}