{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12540\viewh15140\viewkind1
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Content\
	
\f1 \ul a\ulnone ) John James\'92s inscription (inside front flyleaf).\
	\ul b\ulnone ) Joan Severn\'92s inscription (second front flyleaf).\
	\ul c\ulnone ) Tabbed and alphabetized pages (unnumbered leaf plus folios 1-10r [1R-11R]).\
	\ul d\ulnone ) Margaret\'92s copy of the  Advice of the mother of the Chevalier Bayard on his leaving home to commence the profession of arms,  extracted from ??? (10-11r [11V-12R]). This is followed by a quotation from I Chronicles 28:9 (11r). The advice to the chevalier is as follows:\
\
Peter, my friend, you are going into the service of a noble Prince; as much as a mother can command her child, do I command you three things, which, if you do, rest assured they will enable you to pass through this present life with honour. The first is, that above all things you love and serve God, without offending Him in any way, if it be possible to you. For it is He who gave us life, it is He who will save us, and without Him and His grace we should not have the power to perform a single good work in this world. Recommend yourself to Him every morning and evening and He will give you aid. The second is, that you be mild and courteous to all Gentlemen, casting away pride. Be humble and obliging to everybody. Be not a slanderer or a liar. Keep yourself temperate in regard to eating & drinking. Avoid envy it is a mean vice. Be neither a flatterer nor a tale-bearer, for people of this description do not usually attain to any high degree of excellence. Be loyal in word and deed. Keep your promises. Succour poor widows and orphans, and God will reward you. The third is, that you be bountiful of the goods that God shall give you to the poor and needy, for to give for His honours sake never made any man poor; and believe me, my child, the alms that you shall dispense will greatly profit both your body and soul.\
\
(See no. 35 for Ruskin\'92s treatment of the Chevalier Bayard, who is depicted at the bottom of a page mainly devoted to Denis of France. The chevalier lies beneath a tree and supports upright the cruciform hilt of his sword.)\
	The verse from Chronicles, in Margaret\'92s copy, reads as follows:\
\
And thou, Solomon my son, know thou the God of thy father, and serve him with a perfect heart and with a willing mind: for the Lord searcheth all hearts, and understandeth all the imaginations of the thoughts: if thou seek Him, He will be found of thee; but if thou forsake Him, He will cast thee off forever. 28\super st\nosupersub  Chronicles 9\super th\nosupersub  v\
	\ul e\ulnone ) Blank page (11v [12V]), followed by stub for one removed leaf. This might have been a leaf destined for Ruskin\'92s title page, if he planned one. Another possible place would have been the two front flyleaves.[MAYBE MARGARET PUT HER STUFF WHERE THE TITLE WOULD HAVE GONE]\
	(\ul f\ulnone ) Fair copy with accompanying illustrations (in imitation of engravings) of Account of a Tour on the Continent, no. 180. Text written in  copperplate  hand, and illustrations drawn on separate squares of paper and pasted into place. Not all the  Tour,  as drafted in MS VIII and elsewhere, was fair-copied. The Library Edition follows the poem, so far as it was fair-copied and reconstructs the remainder (see \ul Works\ulnone  2:340 n.).\
	Here are the contents of the Account listed in sequence, with citations from the Library Edition matched with the manuscript page numbers:\
	Drawing (\ul Works\ulnone , 2:341 n. 1) (12r), \
 Calais  (poem, \ul Works\ulnone , 2:341) (12r-12v), drawing (\ul Works\ulnone , 2:341 n. 3) (12v).\
	Drawing (\ul Works\ulnone , 2:341 n. 4) (13r), untitled prose section on Calais (\ul Works\ulnone , 2:341-42) (13r-14r), drawing (\ul Works\ulnone , 2:342 n. 2) (14r).\
	Drawing (\ul Works\ulnone , 2:342 n. 3) (14v),  Cassel  (poem, \ul Works\ulnone , 2:342-43) (14v-15v), drawing (\ul Works\ulnone , 2:343 n. 1) (15v).\
	Drawing (\ul Works\ulnone , 2:343 n. 2) (16r), untitled prose section on Cassel (\ul Works\ulnone , 2:343-44) (16r-17r), drawing (\ul Works\ulnone , 2:344 n. 1) (17r).\
	Drawing (\ul Works\ulnone , 2:344 n. 2) (17v);  Lille  (\ul Works\ulnone , poem, 2:344-45) (17v-18v); no drawing at end of poem, but small space available (18v).\
	Drawing (\ul Works\ulnone , 2:345 n. 2; note that the Library Edition gives the impression that this drawing closes the poem, when in fact it heads the prose section) (19r); untitled prose section on Lille (\ul Works\ulnone , 2:345) (19r-19v); no drawing at end of prose section, but small space available (19v).\
	No drawing at head of poem, but space definitely left for that purpose (20r);  Brussels  (poem, \ul Works\ulnone , 2:346-47) (20r-21v); drawing (\ul Works\ulnone , 2:347 n. 2, first sketch listed) (21v).\
	Stub (between 21v and 22r).\
	Drawing (\ul Works\ulnone , 2:347 n. 2, second drawing listed) (22r), untitled prose section on Brussels (\ul Works\ulnone , 2:347-48) (22r-24r), no drawing at end of prose section, but ample space available (24r).\
	No drawing at head of poem, but space definitely left for that purpose (24v);  The Meuse  (\ul Works\ulnone , poem, 2:348-49) (24v-25v); drawing (\ul Works\ulnone , 2:349 n. 1), positioned between last two lines of  The Meuse  (poem) and beginning of prose section (25v); untitled prose section on the Meuse (\ul Works\ulnone , 2:349-50) (25v-26r); drawing, not at end of prose passage on 26v, where a small space is available, but pasted broadside and taking up whole of 27r (\ul Works\ulnone , 2:350 n. 2, first drawing listed).\
	Blank page (27v); drawing (\ul Works\ulnone , 2:350 n. 2, second drawing listed) (28r);  Aix la Chapelle  (\ul Works\ulnone , prose, 2:350-51) (28r-30r).\
	Nearly full-page blank space definitely left for drawing, following last few words of  Aix la Chapelle  (prose) and preceding the two opening lines of  Cologne  (30r);  Cologne  (poem, \ul Works\ulnone , 2:351) (30r-31r, with the deliberately erased gap described in \ul Works\ulnone , 2:351 n. 2).\
	Drawing, between last line only of  Cologne  (poem) and beginning of prose section (\ul Works\ulnone , 2:351 n. 3) (31r); untitled prose section on Cologne (\ul Works\ulnone , 2:351-53) (31r-33v); no drawing following prose section, but a small space available (33v). One of these leaves (31r-v) has at some point been cut away from its stub; then, the loose leaf cut horizontally between the drawing and the prose at the bottom; and, finally, the two pieces have been taped back into place again, reattached to the stub. The piece with the drawing has  B  written at the side. See 37r-v, below.\
	Stub (between 33v and 34r).\
	No drawing, although large space definitely allowed (34r);  Andernacht  (poem, \ul Works\ulnone , 2:354 n., i.e., \ul not\ulnone  2:353-54) (34r-34v); drawing, at top of page following poem and preceding prose, which is described in \ul Works\ulnone  as somewhat detached from the poem, but which certainly depicts Andernach tower (\ul Works\ulnone , 2:354 n. 2) (35r); untitled prose section on Andernach (\ul Works\ulnone , 2:354-55) (35r-36v); no drawing at end of prose section, but ample space available (36v).\
	Drawing (\ul Works\ulnone , 2:355 n. 1, and page reproduced 356 opp.) (37r);  Ehrenbreitstein  (\ul Works\ulnone , poem, 2:355-58) (37r-39v); drawing (2:358 n. 1) (39v). One leaf (37r-v) has been removed from its stub and then reattached with tape. Since the tape is the same as that used to reattach 31r-v, and since this entire leaf is reproduced in \ul Works\ulnone , one suspects that the leaf was detached so it could be photographed for the Library Edition. It is equally possible, however, that the editors took advantage of an existing separation.\
	No drawing, although nearly full-page space definitely allowed (40r); untitled prose section on Ehrenbreitstein (\ul Works\ulnone , 2:358) (40r-41r); no drawing at end of prose passage, and insufficient space available for one (41r).\
	No drawing, although space definitely allowed (41v); untitled poem on St. Goar (\ul Works\ulnone , 2:359 n. 1, i.e., \ul not\ulnone  2:359-60) (41v-42r); no drawing at end of poem, but small space available (42r).\
	No drawing, although space definitely allowed (42r); untitled prose passage on St. Goar (\ul Works\ulnone , 2:360-61)(42v-43r); no drawing at end of prose passage, and only a very small space available (43r).\
	Drawing (\ul Works\ulnone , 2:360 n. 1, cited erroneously as following poem on St. Goar) (43v); untitled poem on Heidelberg (\ul Works\ulnone , 2:361-64) (43v-46v); no drawing, but space allowed on two-page spread (45v-46r, on each page of which the poetry extends only halfway down, lines 65-76 on 45v, and lines 77-86 on 46r); no drawing, and no space available, at end of poem (46v).\
	Blank leaf (47r-47v); no drawing, although space definitely allowed (48r); beginning of untitled prose section on Heidelberg (\ul Works\ulnone , 2:364 [ Most beautiful . . . granite, sometimes ]).\
	Blank page (48v).\
	Stub (between 48v and 49r).\
	Drawing, pasted in middle of page (\ul Works\ulnone , 2:364 n. 1 [no. 1]) (49r).\
	Blank page (49v).\
	Drawing, pasted in middle of page (\ul Works\ulnone , 2:364 n. 1 [no. 2]) (50r).\
	Blank page (50v).\
	Drawing, pasted broadside in middle of page (\ul Works\ulnone , 2:364 n. 1 [no. 3]) (51r).\
	Blank page (51v).\
	Drawing, pasted in middle of page (\ul Works\ulnone , 2:364 n. 1 [no. 4]) (52r).\
	Blank page (52v).\
	Two drawings (\ul Works\ulnone , 2:364 n. 1 [nos. 5a-b]), no space available for text.\
	Blank page (53v).\
	Stub (between 53v and 54r).\
	Drawing, pasted in middle of page (\ul Works\ulnone , 2:364 n. 1 [no. 6]) (54r).\
	Blank page (54v).\
	Drawing, pasted in middle of page (\ul Works\ulnone , 2:364 n. 1 [no. 7]) (55r).\
	Blank pages (55v-74r).}