{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f230\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f231\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f233\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f234\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f235\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f236\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f237\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f238\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f250\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f251\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f253\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f254\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f255\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f256\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f257\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}
{\f258\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 \styrsid6716445 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}}{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid6716445}{\*\generator Micro
soft Word 11.0.5604;}{\info{\title Editorial Notes on the Chronology Entries}{\author  }{\operator  }{\creatim\yr2005\mo8\dy27\hr9\min2}{\revtim\yr2005\mo8\dy27\hr9\min3}{\version1}{\edmins1}{\nofpages5}{\nofwords912}{\nofchars5203}
{\*\company Southeastern Louisiana University}{\nofcharsws6103}{\vern24689}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct
\asianbrkrule\rsidroot6716445\newtblstyruls\nogrowautofit \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid6716445 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445 
Editorial Notes on the Chronology Entries
\par \tab My aim has been to
 establish a comprehensive and accurate chronology; accordingly, the information supplied in the notes to the entries is mainly devoted to justifying the dating of each item and, especially for the longer works, to discussing sources and compositional his
tory. Researchers should still consult }{\i\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445 PJR}{\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445 , }{\i\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445 Works}{\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445 , }{
\i\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445 RFL}{\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445 , }{\i\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445 TLC}{\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445 , and other editions for textual and explanatory notes.
\par \tab Besides the obviously necessary revisions in earlier editors\rquote  erroneous datings, this edition attempts a precision that Collingwood might have considered pointless or even pernicious under the ban of \'93instructions which have been given him.
\'94 My chronology makes available, as near as possible, the day-by-day plotting of Ruskin\rquote s composing process, including all known minor works, finished or unf
inished, and the detailed compositional histories of longer works, finished or unfinished. For example, it is revealing to learn what we can about the production of the frequently quoted, so-called Account of a Tour on the Continent (no. 180)\emdash 
to learn abou
t the order in which Ruskin drafted its various sections, about what he planned to draft but never executed, about the order in which he fair-copied and illustrated the sections, and about the point at which he abandoned fair-copying. Whatever conclusions
 
critics choose to draw from such a reconstruction, its effects on interpretation ought to differ considerably from the misleading impression of polished arrangement that has come down to us through the Library Edition printing of the Account. Who has noti
ced, since the Library Edition and }{\i\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445 PJR}{\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445  fail to inform us, that even the title is not Ruskin\rquote s, but a paraphrase of a remark of Ruskin\rquote s }{
\i\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445 about}{\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445  the manuscript in }{\i\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445 Praeterita}{\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445 
? This is only a minor correction from manuscript evidence of considerable interest, including previously unpublished poetry for the Account.
\par \tab Detailed compositional histories become especially useful when compared against the family history available in }{\i\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445 RFL}{\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445 
. My correcting the accepted date of a poem by a few months, or even by a year, may a
t first seem of little consequence to manuscripts that, in any event, are juvenile productions; however, the consequences can prove revolutionary when the revised dates and sequence of Ruskin\rquote 
s early literary works are correctly dovetailed with the sequence of the family letters. Thereby, the process of Ruskin\rquote 
s early writing can be seen in terms of an ongoing response to his parents and teachers and of their responses to him. Thus, revised and precise chronology opens up the socio- and psychodynamics of wr
iting in this remarkable Victorian family, to an extent never previously available. One important phenomenon already mentioned, Ruskin\rquote s angry response to Margaret\rquote s efforts to \'93stop his rhyming,\'94
 has previously been obscured by the erroneous dates and textual omissions in the older editions.
\par \tab Of course, significant portions of Collingwood\rquote s, Cook and Wedderburn\rquote s, and Viljoen\rquote s work are correct (and, in a few cases of subsequently lost or destroyed items, the only evidence we have). What is reliable in the
ir work has been fully incorporated into mine\emdash and, I hope, adequately and gratefully acknowledged\emdash relieving the reader of having to juggle multiple bibliographies and chronologies.
\par \tab Where possible, the editorial notes identify Ruskin\rquote s sources, which often help confirm the dating. The interest in Ruskin\rquote s early literary influences\emdash a topic that initially drew editors and biographers to the juvenilia\emdash 
is refreshed by the unpublished work. \'93Athens\'94 presents the earliest }{\i\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445 direct}{\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445  evidence of Ruskin\rquote s interest in Wordsworth\rquote s narrative poetry, such as }
{\i\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445 The Excursion}{\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445 , an influence that critics have attached to \'93Iteriad\'94
 by inference alone. Byron proves the overwhelming influence on the earlier poetry, including Ruskin\rquote s unexpected engagement with }{\i\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445 Manfred}{\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445  in a series o
f songs and fragments (nos. 123\endash 27, 134a). The known Byronic influences\emdash }{\i\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445 Childe Harold\rquote s Pilgrimage}{\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445  and }{\i\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445 
Don Juan}{\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445 , for example\emdash emerge more prominently than ever.
\par \tab Sources for }{\i\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445 The King of the Golden River}{\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445  are usually identified in Ruskin\rquote s early reading, especially Grimm\rquote s fairy tales\emdash 
or, in the form he read them, the }{\i\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445 German Popular Stories}{\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445  of 1823, illustrated by Cruikshank. The unpublished poetry shows not only }{
\i\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445 that}{\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445  he read those tales but also }{\i\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445 how}{\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445 
 he read them. Critics have identified major Ruskinian themes in his copies and versifications of Cruikshank\rquote s illustrations, the partially published \'93Puppet Show\'94
 (no. 35). The verses accompanying these drawings are often very slight; other unpublished poems, such as \'93Life\'94 (no. 116), extend Ruskin\rquote s fascination with the tales themselves. In numerous narrative fragments, \'93kelpies,\'94 \'93brownies,
\'94 \'93water spirits,\'94 and the like, stalk the verse. In these, Ruskin adapts Grimm to his own interests, usually sacrificing an incipient narrative to description and mood setting, which become the poem\rquote 
s objective. These gothic poems also point to Ruskin\rquote s knowledge of Scottish folklore.
\par \tab Scott, of course, is a constant presence. Battle scenes from the Waverley novels provide a frequent source of topics. Scholars also need full access to Ruskin\rquote s imaginative engagement with the White Lady of }{
\i\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445 The Monastery}{\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445  or the Maiden of the Mist in }{\i\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445 Anne of Geierstein}{\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445 
. Although these nebulous and ambiguously threatening yet guiding female figures would haunt Ruskin\rquote s imagination throughout his life, the poems containing them have previously been published, if at all, only as brief quotations (e.g., no. 46).

\par \tab Besides the influence of major writers, the unpublished Ruskin also reflects minor poets and fiction writers, not to mention obscure natural sc
ience magazine articles, geology primers, travel narratives, sensational tales in gift annuals, and the like. Occasionally, I have been able to dig up a forgotten source, such as the Reverend George Croly\rquote s }{
\i\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445 Tales of the Great St. Bernard}{\f2\fs22\insrsid6716445\charrsid6716445 , which gave Ruskin his idea for the \'93Chronicles of St. Bernard\'94
 (no. 216). A great help to me in identifying scientific sources has been Viljoen\rquote s unpublished papers on the juvenilia.
\par }}