{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\f37\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f44\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden 
Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \ssemihidden footnote text;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext16 \ssemihidden endnote text;}{\*\cs17 \additive \super \sbasedon10 \ssemihidden footnote reference;}{\*\cs18 \additive \super \sbasedon10 \ssemihidden endnote reference;}{\s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext19 header;}{\s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext20 footer;}{\*\cs21 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}}{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0}
{\*\rsidtbl \rsid2771864\rsid3623028\rsid3932320\rsid4718732\rsid4796044\rsid5579075\rsid5843713\rsid8265497\rsid8937785\rsid9200129\rsid10640649\rsid12531075\rsid13117728\rsid15015804\rsid16201252}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 11.0.5604;}{\info
{\title INTRODUCTION}{\author David Hanson}{\operator  }{\creatim\yr2005\mo8\dy23\hr15\min19}{\revtim\yr2005\mo9\dy4\hr10\min49}{\printim\yr1999\mo10\dy23\hr8\min58}{\version12}{\edmins24}{\nofpages69}{\nofwords19614}{\nofchars111804}
{\*\company Southeastern Louisiana University}{\nofcharsws131156}{\vern24689}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1440
\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\rsidroot16201252 \fet0{\*\ftnsep \pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid2771864 \chftnsep 
\par }}{\*\ftnsepc \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid2771864 \chftnsepc 
\par }}{\*\aftnsep \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid2771864 \chftnsep 
\par }}{\*\aftnsepc \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid2771864 \chftnsepc 
\par }}\sectd \psz1\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\header \pard\plain \s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\insrsid2771864 \tab \tab }{\fs22\insrsid2771864 Introduction }{\field{\*\fldinst {\cs21\fs22\insrsid2771864  PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\cs21\fs22\lang1024\langfe1024\noproof\insrsid8265497 12}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 
\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs22\insrsid2771864 INTRODUCTION}{\fs22\insrsid9200129 
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid9200129 {\fs22\insrsid9200129 <head1>Plan of the Edition
\par <head2>Notes
\par }{\fs22\insrsid13117728 Biographical, Place, }{\fs22\insrsid9200129 
\par <head3>}{\fs22\insrsid13117728 Biographical, Place, Bibliographic}{\fs22\insrsid9200129 
\par }{\fs22\insrsid8937785 
\par Need to have a discussion of relation of houses to writing.}{\fs22\insrsid8265497\charrsid8265497  }{\fs22\insrsid8265497 
Ruskin's possibly self-conscious distinction between juvenilia and early professional writing are their respective orientations to the home and institutions beyond.}{\fs22\insrsid8937785 
\par }{\fs22\insrsid9200129 
\par Notes on historical persons and places, if well documented in Ruskin scholarship, consist of brief accounts designed to give the nonspecialist a helpful orientation while pointing to titles in the bibliography for further information. There is no attempt 
to repeat work already well done elsewhere}{\fs22\insrsid5579075 , and the notes include references to the bibliography for further reading}{\fs22\insrsid9200129 . At the same time, much information about figures and places familiar in Ruskin scholarsh}{
\fs22\insrsid3932320 ip will gain new lights from annotation}{\fs22\insrsid5579075 s throughout}{\fs22\insrsid3932320  th}{\fs22\insrsid5579075 is edition}{\fs22\insrsid3932320 .}{\fs22\insrsid5579075 
 The notes, while not attempting to gather together all this commentary, orient the reader to the edition by slanting discussion toward the role of these places and people respecting the early manuscripts.}{\fs22\insrsid9200129 
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\fs22\insrsid5843713 <}{\fs22\insrsid15015804 definition}{\fs22\insrsid5843713 >}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
\par }{\fs22\insrsid5843713 Defining the corpus ought to be the first thing.
\par }{\fs22\insrsid15015804 Major manuscript
\par }{\fs22\insrsid4718732 Red Book
\par }{\fs22\insrsid9200129 definitions \u8594\'3f juvenilia vs professional \u8594\'3f cross writing
\par }{\fs22\insrsid15015804 </definition}{\fs22\insrsid5843713 >}{\fs22\insrsid9200129 
\par 
\par }{\fs22\insrsid2771864 <audience>
\par Is Adele the first significant audience outside the family? And is that connected with publication?
\par </audience>
\par }{\fs22\insrsid9200129 
\par }{\fs22\insrsid12531075 <editing>
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid12531075 {\fs22\insrsid12531075 <extract>
\par \tab Of the published poems, only a few exist in MS. Most of them have been transcribed by <Miss Allen> from <Mr. George Allen's> copy of <"Poems. J. R.">;}{\cs17\fs22\super\insrsid12531075 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12531075 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs17\super\insrsid12531075 \chftn }{\insrsid12531075  Does that copy survive?}}}{
\fs22\insrsid12531075  privately printed, 1850; now excessively rare. "Salzburg," "Andernach," and "St. Goar" have been taken from "Friendship's Offering" (1835)--the copy inscribed "To John Ruskin from the Publishers."}{\cs17\fs22\super\insrsid12531075 
\chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12531075 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\cs17\super\insrsid12531075 \chftn }{\insrsid12531075  Still extant?}}}{
\fs22\insrsid12531075  Full account of the published poems has b
een given by Mr. Thomas J. Wise in his "Bibliography of the Writings, &c., of John Ruskin," part <sc>I<sc>,  <i>Sept.</i>  1889 (printed for subscribers only); of which I have gladly availed myself.
\par }\pard \ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\fs22\insrsid12531075 </extract>
\par </editing>
\par }{\fs22\insrsid2771864 John James and Margaret Ruskin treasured virtually everything that they and their son, John Ruskin, wrote during his youth. Robert Browning, whose boyhood shared so many influences with Ruskin\rquote 
s in the semirural lanes and evangelical chapels of Camberwell, destroyed nearly everything of importance in connection with his early writing. As a result, Ruskin\rquote 
s early literary development has been as admired and extensively documented and studied as that of the Bront\'ebs, while Browning\rquote s biographers have been forced to rely on more indirect sources.}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote 
\pard\plain \s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864  See John Maynard, }{\i\insrsid2771864 
Browning\rquote s Youth}{\insrsid2771864  (Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press, 1977).}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 Yet, whereas Browning, having disposed of the evidence, proved surprisingly insouciant in the ultimate testamentary arrangements for his literary estate,}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864  Michael Millgate, }{\i\insrsid2771864 
Testamentary Acts: Browning, Tennyson, James, Hardy}{\insrsid2771864  (Oxford: Clarendon, 1992), 6\endash 37.}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 Ruskin and his later circle of editors and secretaries at Brantwood were as cautious as Browning, if not as destructive, about the impression posterity would fo
rm of his early writing. Their measures persist through the still standard editions, W. G. Collingwood\rquote s 1891 edition of the }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Poems}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , and E. T. Cook and Alexander Wedderburn\rquote s 1903\endash 
12 Library Edition of Ruskin\rquote s }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Works}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 ; and, despite monumental corrective edit
ing by Helen Gill Viljoen (much of which remains unpublished), James S. Dearden, and Van Akin Burd, the earlier bibliographies and editions continue profoundly to influence how the early Ruskin has been read. Fortunately, it is characteristic of Ruskin th
at, while he and his circle guarded how his writing should be approached, apparently nothing of the early writing\emdash unlike the later correspondence with Rose LaTouche\emdash 
was deliberately committed to flame. The purpose of this edition is to compile the first comprehensive and reliable descriptive bibliography and chronology of the early Ruskin manuscripts and to publish what Ruskin\rquote 
s first editors excluded from their editions.
\par \tab Bibliographically, this book corrects the earlier misdating of individual poems and pr
ose pieces, and updates and corrects the description of all the known major manuscripts. As such, it serves as a comprehensive companion to all editions of the early Ruskin family writing. As itself an edition, this book makes available significant writin
g
 that was banned or merely ignored by the first editors. When appropriate, this edition also republishes writing that was so invasively edited by Collingwood, Cook, and Wedderburn that the original texts remain unavailable in any acceptably scholarly sens
e. Even still, this edition will not complete the printing of everything Ruskin wrote as a child and young man. Some works, such as Ruskin\rquote s long catalogs and descriptive \'93dictionary\'94
 of his mineral collection, do not justify the labor and expense of publication. But scholars who examine these in the archives\emdash and archival study, even of published manuscripts, will always reward researchers of Ruskin\emdash 
will find here full descriptions, datings, and compositional histories of manuscripts that remain unpublished.
\par \tab The only extensive loss of the earlier Ruskin family writing that can now be determined, besides gaps in the family letters, is half of a rough-draft notebook of Ruskin\rquote 
s poetry, called MS VI, and this destruction occurred in the course of the notebook\rquote s composition in 1830\endash 
31 and probably by Ruskin himself. The only member of the family ever to express reservations about the value of writing was Margaret, who on at least three occasions, in 1829 and 1831, and 1833, attempted to \'93stop [John\rquote s] rhyming\'94 or
 at least control its direction (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RFL}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  224, 187), and who repeatedly deprecated her own letters: \'93
Never my Dearest [husband] judge of my feelings by my letters. . . . I cannot bear to write nor that you should have the trouble of reading much of such scrawls as I must fill my paper with if I were filling it\'94 (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RFL}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864  186). Margaret did not prevail. Ruskin\rquote s response to his mother\rquote s attempts to check his rhyming was stubbornly to persist in writing poetry\emdash poems that hotly record his feelings about her interference
, that with psychological insight explore the motives of his mother\rquote s reservations, and that raise protests against the conventional evangelicalism she embraced. These poem fragments were saved\emdash if often only in draft form and not in Ruskin
\rquote s exquisite fair
-copy notebooks, from which such angry and sarcastic poems were usually (but not always) excluded. Despite the careful preservation even of such painful writing, these were among the kind of poems that were banned from the earlier editions and that, until
 now, remain largely unpublished. They give substance to the shadowy dissonances struck in Ruskin\rquote s attempt to make peace with his parents, }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Praeterita}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 \emdash his protests \'93
that I had nothing to love,\'94 \'93that, when affection did come, it came with violence utterly rampant and unmanageable,\'94 and that \'93
the ceaseless authority exercised over my youth left me, when cast out at last into the world, unable for some time to do more than drift with its vortices.\'94 Although, in the manuscripts, these \'93calamities\'94 are \'93equally dominant\'94 with the 
\'93blessings\'94 that }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Praeterita}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  on the whole tends to uphold (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Works}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , 35:43\endash 
46), in the selections chosen for the first editions of the youthful writing, the blessings of childhood were made to outweigh its difficulties.
\par \tab Margaret\rquote s letters, too, despite her self-deprecation, were as carefully preserved by the family as John and John James\rquote 
s productions, although the later provenance of her manuscripts sometimes formed a special case. In the late 1880s and afterward, when the manuscripts at Brantwood were arranged and bound with the aid of Alexander Wedderburn, Margaret\rquote 
s earlier letters were not necessarily treated differently than John James\rquote s (Bem L 1\endash 4; see }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RBB}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  60, and Sotheby }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Cat}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
. 1931, 9 [lots 41, 43]); however, the handsome blue-morocco and gilt volumes housing Ruskin\rquote s letters naturally identified his early writing most closely with his father (MS XI).}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864  Throughout this edition, }{\i\insrsid2771864 MS}{
\insrsid2771864  followed by a roman numeral refers to the major manuscripts listed in the descriptive bibliography, in part 2. }{\i\insrsid2771864 No.}{\insrsid2771864 
 followed by an arabic numeral refers to the chronological listing of individual poems and prose pieces, in part 1. See below, \'93The Design of This Edition.\'94}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  In the subsequent manuscript sales of the 1930s, Ruskin\rquote 
s letters to his father went to Yale\rquote s Beinecke Library, while his parents\rquote  letters went to the Ruskin Galleries at Bembridge, Isle of Wight\emdash with Margaret\rquote 
s later letters taking a more circuitous path than other family manuscripts (Bem B VI; see }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RBB}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  126\endash 29). The juvenilia and youthful writing, Ruskin\rquote 
s notebooks and other manuscripts apart from the letters, have ended up divided among collections primarily at Yale, Princeton, and the Pierpont Morgan libraries, and to a lesser extent at the Coniston Museum and the Lancaster University Ruskin 
Library (the latter formerly the Bembridge Galleries collection), the Huntington Library, and the Ruskin Library in Tokyo. The wide dispersal and consequent availability of the early Ruskin family manuscripts have proved consequential for scholarship. It 
was at least partly owing to Helen Gill Viljoen\rquote s inability to gain access to Margaret\rquote s letters, for example, that her insights into the relationship between father and son have proved more memorable than her analysis of Margaret\rquote 
s character (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RSH}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  243 n. 27; }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RBB}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  180\endash 
81), while her intensive study of the juvenilia was aided by so many of those manuscripts having been acquired by American libraries.
\par \tab Even now, the dispersal of the early manuscripts forces reliance on the earlier editions, with all their biblio
graphic errors and questionable editorial policies by Collingwood and Cook and Wedderburn. More recent scholars, such as Burd and Dearden, have overcome the early editors\rquote 
 influence to compile reliable editions of selected portions of the early writing. Un
til now, however, no comprehensive bibliographic reconsideration of the entirety of the early manuscripts has been made available. Only by means of a comprehensively revised chronology and descriptive bibliography, which form the foundation of this editio
n, can we at last fully understand the later mythologizing of Ruskin\rquote s childhood and, behind that, the actual youthful writing in all the complexity of its genius.
\par  
\par APPROACHES TO BIBLIOGRAPHY AND EDITING OF THE EARLY MANUSCRIPTS
\par \tab Errors have beset bibliography of the early manuscripts from the start. The first known attempt, by Ruskin\rquote s father, John James Ruskin, begins with a startling oversight. In the late 1840s, John James was planning a collection of his son
\rquote s poems for private circulation, the rare }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Poems}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  by \'93J.R.\'94 (1850). To compile a list of his son\rquote s published poems, John James used blank pages in one of the treasured \'93Red Books\'94
 of Ruskin\rquote s youth\emdash MS IV, devoted primarily to the long 1828\endash 30 catalog poem \'93Eudosia.\'94}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864  For a full transcript of the list
, and a discussion of its date and purpose, see part 2, MS IV, \'93Description.\'94}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  John James\rquote s first entry reads \'93on Skiddaw & Derwent Water / page 72 Spiritual Times / Feby 1830 age 11 years.\'94
 That this entry is scored through in pencil perhaps indicates that John James realized a mistake, but this slight clue was not enough to prevent the erroneous belief, held by generations of scholars, that \'93On Skiddaw and Derwent Water\'94 was Ruskin
\rquote s first publication. Only as recently as 1994 did James S. Dearden publish his discovery that Ruskin\rquote s actual debut in print occurred, not in the February 1830 issue of the }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Spiritual Times}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
, but in the August 1829 issue and, not with \'93On Skiddaw and Derwent Water,\'94 but with the forgotten \'93Lines Written at the Lakes in Cumberland.\'94}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864  James S. Dearden, \'93John Ruskin\rquote 
s First Published Work,\'94 }{\i\insrsid2771864 Book Collector}{\insrsid2771864  42, no. 2 (Summer 1994): 299\endash 300.}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
\par \tab Only a few years prior to this announcement, Dearden, along with Van Akin Burd, had pointed out another major error in the bibliography of Ruskin\rquote s so-called first published poem, the belief that \'93On Skiddaw and Derwent Water\'94
 was first drafted in 1828 (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 TLC}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , 7, 20 n. 20). In fact, \'93description of skiddaw & lake derwent,\'94 as Ruskin entitled the draft and the fair copy of his poem (MSS II, V), was co
mposed between late February or early March and May 1829 for his father\rquote s birthday. Then, within a few months\emdash not a few years, as always believed\emdash a part of the \'93description\'94 was published. That part became the \'93
Lines Written at the Lakes in Cumberland\'94 in the August 1829 }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Spiritual Times}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , a journal owned and edited by Ruskin\rquote 
s tutor, the Reverend Edward Andrews. In the following February, 1830, the remaining portion of the original \'93description\'94 appeared as \'93On Skiddaw and Derwent Water.\'94
\par \tab Cook and Wedderburn must be given credit for correcting at least part of the story about Ruskin\rquote s first publication, since, by their time, the mythologized transmission of Ruskin\rquote 
s early writing had already begun, influencing its treatment by the first bibliographers and editors. In the 1870s, in his }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Catalogue}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  of the Rudimentary Series of drawings at the Oxford schools, and in }{
\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Deucalion}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , Ruskin confidently\emdash even with colorful supporting anecdotes\emdash attributed his first appearance in print to }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 prose}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 publications, his two 1834 papers for Loudon\rquote s }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Magazine of Natural History}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Works}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , 21:243, 26:275; nos. 190\endash 
91). In the 1870s, in context of his writing on drawing, botany, and geology, Ruskin very likely wanted to believe his first publications to have been scientific and factual, rather than poetic, in nature. Ruskin\rquote 
s faulty memory or wishful thinking soon became \'93fact,\'94 however, when his first major bibliographers, Shepherd (9) and Wise (1:302\endash 3, 2:111), depended on Ruskin\rquote s remarks to award the distinction of his debut to the 1834 
papers for Loudon\rquote s }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Magazine}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 . So settled became the prejudice that even Collingwood\emdash who ought to have known better, since he discovered John James\rquote s entry in MS IV on the }{
\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Spiritual Times}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  publication and even printed it, without comment, in 1891 (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 PJR}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , 1:264)\emdash persisted in heading a chronological list of Ruskin\rquote 
s publications with the }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Magazine of Natural History}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  papers. In his 1893 }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Life}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  of Ruskin, Collingwood maintained that Ruskin \'93began his literary career\'94
 as the \'93analytic John Ruskin . . . already an }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 enfant terrible}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 \'94 of prose argument (1:233, 49\endash 50).
\par \tab Before the last decades of the century, when Ruskin and his editors summoned faulty bibliography in support of a desired story about the young natural scientist, John James, in the middle of the century, told his own story through selection for the }
{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Poems}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  by \'93J.R.\'94 The pencil scoring through John James\rquote 
s mistaken entry in MS IV may indicate, not that somebody in the family spotted its inaccuracy, but that the father had decided, curiously, not to include his son\rquote s very first publications\emdash not even the 1830 \'93On Skiddaw and Derwent Water,
\'94 which John James certainly remembered. Instead, he opened the volume with \'93Song\'94 (\'93I weary for the torrent leaping,\'94 no. 176), a previously unpublished poem of 1833 (misdated 1832
 by Collingwood). Why did John James choose this manuscript poem, and not the printed \'93On Skiddaw and Derwent Water,\'94 when an otherwise pervasive principle of selection in the 1850 }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Poems}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 was to reprint poems that had already been published? We may never know, since the fifty copies of the 1850 }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Poems}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 constituted a private and very personal enterprise by John James, limited to circulation among family and friends; however, a suggestive fact about the 1833 poem has emerged from the revised chronology. This is 
one of the few poems Ruskin wrote in early 1833, when Margaret finally prevailed in enforcing a ban on the boy\rquote s poetic composition (\'93My harp is sunk to rest,\'94
 the poem laments), and in redirecting his energies into the Sermon Books (see nos. 176, 170)\emdash a v
erdict to which the father, probably reluctantly, assented. Two decades later, in retrieving this poem to open his collection, was John James belatedly repealing the old prohibition, tenderly restoring the silenced harp to his son? Ruskin, in Venice at th
e time and engaged in repudiating his adolescent Byronism, no longer wanted the harp.}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864  See Elizabeth K. Helsinger, }{\i\insrsid2771864 Ruskin and the Art of the Beholder}{\insrsid2771864 
 (Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press, 1982), 140\endash 63.}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  The additional ironies revealed by the revised dating and circumstances of the 1833 poem tend to reinforce the view that, in compiling the }{
\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Poems}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  of 1850, John James was living in the past; however, the facts also point unexpectedly to the father\rquote s solicitude for his son\rquote s feelings and resentments\emdash if 
ironically and irrelevantly outdated ones.
\par \tab A more public story that John James certainly helped to promote by his selections for the }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Poems}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  of 1850\emdash which were taken mainly from the publications in sentimental gift annuals, such as }{
\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Friendship\rquote s Offering}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , of 1835 and afterward\emdash was that Ruskin\rquote s greatest power as a poet was realized through his adolescent and unrequited first love, for Ad\'e8le Domecq.}{
\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864 
 See E. T. Cook\rquote s introduction to the volume of poems in the Library Edition, esp. }{\i\insrsid2771864 Works}{\insrsid2771864 , 2:xx\endash xxiii; and Wendell Stacy Johnson, \'93Memory, Landscape, Love: John Ruskin\rquote 
s Poetry and Poetic Criticism,\'94 }{\i\insrsid2771864 Victorian Poetry}{\insrsid2771864  19 (1981): 19\endash 34.}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 Putting aside the merits of this view purely as a critical judgment, the story was initially served by noncritical suggestions. Besides the spice added by Ruskin\rquote s self-mocking account in }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Praeterita}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 of how he wooed Ad\'e8le with Byronic melodrama, the texts themselves became enhanced by collectors\rquote  acquisitiveness. By the end of the century, the }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Poems}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  of 1850 had become an almost legendary \'93}
{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Rara Avis}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  of Ruskin literature,\'94 commanding higher prices than any other editions of Ruskin\rquote s work (Wise, 1:17; \'93Ruskin\rquote s }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Poems}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  1850,\'94
 153). T. J. Wise capitalized on the situation, choosing as the first of his Ruskin forgeries an \'931868\'94 (i.e., ca. 1889\endash 90) reprinting of the 1835\endash 36 Byronic tale }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Leoni}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  (\'93
Wise and Ruskin II,\'94 170\endash 71). Wise cleverly exploited the circumstances of Ruskin, in }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Praeterita}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , having singled out }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Leoni}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 as an example of his blandishments to Ad\'e8le, and of the market having bestowed such expensive rarity and an aura of romance on the 1850 }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Poems}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  (which contained a song from }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Leoni}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864 ) (see Wise, 1:147\endash 48; }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Works}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , 35:180). Two years later, Wise continued to encourage and profit by the story of Ruskin as lovesick poet by forging an \'931849\'94 }{
\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Scythian Guest}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  (\'93Wise and Ruskin II,\'94 176\endash 78).
\par \tab Critics continue to be influenced by the story of how the child\rquote s garden at Herne Hill fell with Ad\'e8le\rquote 
s invasion, and how Ruskin was expelled from paradise to embark on a Shelleyan quest of unobtainable love. While there is some truth to the romance, the poems excluded from Collingwood\rquote s 1891 }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Poems}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 and the Library Edition reveal that imagery commonly associated with the Ad\'e8le poems first arose much earlier, in poetry probing Ruskin\rquote 
s anxious and problematic love for his mother. Figures of drowning in a maternal ocean, drawn from Byron, occur obsessively in the poetry of 1831\endash 33, long before Ruskin caused weird cries to issue from shadowy waters in writing about Ad\'e8le.}{
\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864 
 See my \'93Self and Revision in Ruskin\rquote s Revaluations of Byron and Wordsworth, 1830\endash 1880,\'94 forthcoming.}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  However one chooses to interpret the fact, Ruskin\rquote s romance of Venice must be approached 
as rooted at least as profoundly in these earlier fragments about drowning in a maternal \'93ocean\rquote s breast\'94 as in the poems probing Ad\'e8le\rquote s betrayal and loss.
\par \tab This and other corrections to prevailing myths have been prevented by the pervasive errors and questionable decisions in the bibliography and textual transmission of Ruskin\rquote 
s early writing. The first attempt at a comprehensive bibliography specifically of the early writing was Collingwood\rquote s descriptive bibliography compiled for his 1891 edition of Ruskin\rquote s }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Poems}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  (
}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 PJR}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 ). Collingwood\rquote s \'93Preliminary Note on the Original MSS. of the Poems\'94 (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 PJR}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , 1:262\endash 
68) described many of the major manuscripts of the juvenilia, namely, the notebooks in which Ruskin drafted and fair-copied his first poems. Courageous in unde
rtaking the description of very complicated manuscripts, and correct in many of his interpretations, Collingwood nonetheless misdated the entirety of one notebook (MS II) and many sections of others; misinterpreted the compositional sequences within sever
al notebooks; and, since he was interested only in the poetry, omitted description of most of the prose manuscripts.
\par \tab Even more momentously for the future understanding of Ruskin\rquote s early compositional practices, Collingwood made an editorial decision\emdash one that has gone entirely unnoticed, so far as I know, much less questioned\emdash to print \'93
only such [childhood] verses as are of sufficient completeness to stand alone.\'94 He adds that this decision was governed by \'93the instructions which have been given him,\'94 failing to specify the source (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 PJR}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864 , 1:270). We may never know whether those instructions were imparted by Ruskin or by someone close to him. Given Ruskin\rquote s sardonic view in }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Praeterita}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  of the \'93unfinished folly
\'94 of an early production, left \'93in Joanie [Severn]\rquote s care, that none but friends may see it\'94 (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Works}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
, 35:81), such a caveat would have been characteristic of the elderly writer, as well as of his circle. In }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Fiction, Fair and Foul}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  (1880, 1881), Ruskin had attacked Wordsworth\rquote s \'93disciples\'94
 for advancing the poet\rquote s \'93unfinished verse, and uncorrected fancy . . . into places of authority.\'94 According to Ruskin, such unauthorized printings of fragments were meant to \'93
give countenance to the popular national prejudices from the infection of which . . . [the disciples] themselves sprang\'94 (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Works}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , 34:350). Whatever \'93national prejudices\'94 Ruskin had in mind\emdash 
and he rails against several \'93infections\'94 of the modern literary market in }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Fiction, Fair and Foul}{\i\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864  As Wordsworth\rquote s \'93unfinished verse,\'94
 Ruskin may have been thinking of }{\i\insrsid2771864 The Prelude}{\insrsid2771864 . By Wordsworth\rquote s \'93disciples,\'94
 he may have meant Matthew Arnold, but certainly the Wordsworth Society, of which he was a member. Linda Austin argues that Ruskin\rquote s equivocal detractions from Wordsworth in the Wordsworth versus Byron debate of the 
1880s were most strongly animated by what Ruskin regarded as the Lake poet\rquote s violation of appropriate social distance between writer and audience (}{\i\insrsid2771864 The Practical Ruskin: Economics and Audience in the Late Work}{\insrsid2771864 
 [Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1991], 145\endash 68).}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 \emdash his animus may well have resulted in Collingwood\rquote s \'93instructions.\'94
 The consequence was the exclusion of dozens of fragments from the early editions, especially those fragments that the editors considered \'93morbid\'94 and \'93bloodthirsty\'94 (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Works}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , 2:
279 n. 1). When recovered, correctly dated, and compared against events recounted in the family letters (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RFL}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 ), many of these rejected poems will be found to contain Ruskin\rquote s response to his mother
\rquote s attempts to \'93stop his rhyming\'94 and to other psychological disturbances that the elder Ruskin probably preferred to forget.}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864  See my \'93Self and Revision,\'94 and \'93
The Psychology of Fragmentation: A Bibliographic and Psychoanalytic Reconsideration of the Ruskin Juvenilia,\'94 }{\i\insrsid2771864 Text: An Interdisciplinary Annual of Textual Studies}{\insrsid2771864 , 10 (1997): 237\endash 58.}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 One impression that arises from reading the suppressed early Ruskin is of an occasionally more obstreperous, rebellious, and even manipulative youth than the obedient, if high-spirited, child of }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Praeterita}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 .

\par \tab Nowadays, our prejudices, including my own\emdash \'93infections,\'94 Ruskin would call them\emdash tend to favor fragmentation and perhaps even \'93morbidity.\'94
 For recent Ruskin criticism, completeness and closure would be considered precisely the most misleading criteria for selection. Critical focus has turned to Ruskin\rquote s deliberately open-ended forms and the psychodynamics of incompletion in }{
\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Fors Clavigera}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  and }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Praeterita}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 . It is ironic that, while recent criticism is shifting attention to the late work, away from the earlier Ruskin, the new appr
oaches would find support in a more accurate and comprehensive scholarship of the early manuscripts. I would not want readers to take the poems in this edition, which tend to support more recent readings of Ruskin, as necessarily more representative of Ru
skin\rquote s youthful writing than the poems chosen for Collingwood\rquote s }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Poems}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  and the Library Edition. \'93Calamities,\'94 as Ruskin said, were \'93}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 equally}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864  dominant\'94 with the \'93blessings.\'94 But the earlier editors\rquote  exclusions are unacceptable for objective bibliography and for editing, however interesting and worthy of debate their }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 reasons}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864  for their suppressions may remain.
\par \tab Also unacceptable is Collingwood\rquote s extension of the preference for completed verse to his editorial treatment of what he did select. Collingwood invariabl
y imparted the appearance of greater polish and completion to the poetry than the manuscripts warrant. Through his extensive repunctuation, revision of diction, rearrangements and omissions of lines, retitling, even the patching together of unrelated frag
ments to invent whole poems that Ruskin never imagined, Collingwood imparted a seemliness that is only somewhat legitimized by Ruskin\rquote s own scrupulous attention to fair-copy presentation in some of the original manuscripts.}{
\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864 
 Emerson is one of the few critics to recognize the formal poetic gains in reading Ruskin\rquote s poems in the original, without the early editors\rquote  meddling niceties; see her discussion of \'93When furious up from mines the water pours\'94
 (no. 5) in }{\i\insrsid2771864 RGI}{\insrsid2771864 , 24\endash 28. Otherwise, except for quoting from a few previously unpublished poems, Emerson generally accepts the published texts and chronologies.}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 To return to the example of \'93Skiddaw and Derwent Water,\'94 Collingwood departed from his usual policy and published the poem\rquote s rough-copy (MS II) version in }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 PJR}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
, only because, I believe, the fair copy was unavailable to him at the time. He claims not to have \'93mended\'94 the \'93childish and almost illegible scribble,\'94 \'93except by omission of incomplete parts\'94 (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 PJR}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864 , 1:270). Putting aside his disclaimer about emendation, which is simply false, just as his description of Ruskin\rquote s illegibility is exaggerated, what most closely bears on editorial policy is the decision to omit \'93
incomplete parts.\'94 Here is a good example of Collingwood\rquote s policy guiding even what he saw, much less how he acted on what he saw, for there are no incomplete parts in Ruskin\rquote 
s draft. The draft was fair-copied substantially as Ruskin first wrote it, saving slight word changes. There are only parts that appeared to Collingwood insufficiently polished.
\par \tab In the next stage of editing the juvenilia, Collingwood\rquote s policies were carried over to Cook and Wedderburn\rquote 
s Library Edition, forcing those editors to strike an awkward and self-contradictory pose between the principle of exclusion they inherited from their precursor, on the one hand, and the principle of inclusion governing their own edition, on the other. 
\'93From a considerable quantity of unpublished pieces [of poetry] belonging to Ruskin\rquote s childhood, }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 scarcely anything further has been taken}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 . At least as 
much as was desirable was published during his lifetime, }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 and the scheme of the [Library] edition requires that all this should be reprinted}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
. In some cases, however, where editorial excisions were made in the edition of 1891 [by Collingwood], passages have been restored from the MSS\'94 (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Works}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , 2:xvii, my emphasis).}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 
\chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864  On Wedderburn\rquote 
s and George Allen\rquote s foundational principle of inclusiveness governing the editing of the Library Edition\emdash a principle opposed by Charles Eliot Norton\emdash see James S. Dearden, \'93The Library Edition of the Works of John Ruskin,\'94 }{
\i\insrsid2771864 Book Collector}{\insrsid2771864  44, no. 1 (Spring 1995): 52\endash 53.}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  In their textual presentation, Cook and Wedderburn
 were somewhat more scrupulous than Collingwood in distinguishing between editor and author. \'93
Emendations made by the editor [Collingwood] in 1891 have been retained where they are necessary for the sense; these are included in square brackets. Other emend
ations introduced in that edition have not been followed in the text, though they are mentioned in footnotes. It seemed desirable in this edition to let the text appear as the author wrote it.\'94 Cook and Wedderburn stopped short, however, of providing 
\'93any critical apparatus of manuscript variants,\'94 because they did not think it \'93worth while to treat these early verses with more importance than they possess\'94 (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Works}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
, 2:xxxvi). While it is true that }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 some}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  of Ruskin\rquote s juvenile writings insufficiently reward the labor of compiling textual variants, the editors\rquote 
 dismissiveness has made it impossible to determine what textual variants do repay examination and interpretation.
\par \tab Moreover, Cook and Wedderburn\rquote s tampering with the texts was far more invasive than they claim. For example, they did manage to overcome the prejudice favoring Ruskin\rquote 
s supposed analytic and scientific beginnings, and located at least the 1830 }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Spiritual Times}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  version of \'93On Skiddaw and Derwent Water.\'94 This printing was used as their main copytext, relegating Ruskin
\rquote s original fair copy and its variants from Collingwood\rquote s MS II rough-copy version to a note. Still, their printing contains no less than one-and-a-half dozen silent punctuation variants from the original }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 
Spiritual Times}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  version and changes the wording of three lines. The other early poetry and prose in the first two volumes of the Library Edition were subjected to similar emendations, sometimes significant, sometimes probably not
\emdash but almost always silent and inaccessible to readers\rquote  assessments.
\par \tab Of course, in their treatment of \'93On Skiddaw and Derwent Water,\'94 Cook and Wedderburn missed altogether the 1829 publication of \'93Lines Written at the Lakes in Cumberland,\'94
 an understandable oversight in view of the evidence available to them. They might have remarked, however, that significant revisions had been made to Ruskin\rquote s original version in arriving at the }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Spiritual Times}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864  versions. A pious concluding couplet was added in the published \'93Lines,\'94 and decorous revisions transformed the ending of the 1830 \'93On Skiddaw and Derwent Water,\'94
 as well. The sentiment in these revisions can be seen as contradictory to the spirit of Ruskin\rquote s original version. The friction caused by his revising process (at the behest, I believe, of his parents and tutor) 
is probably reflected in debates over worldly beauty versus religious asceticism carried on in poems succeeding Ruskin\rquote s MS II draft, \'93These worldly things are fair and beauteous too\'94 and \'93We say that this world is unhappy\'94 (nos. 58
\endash 59). The debate seems to culminate in \'93If such the beauties of an earthly shore\'94 (no. 60). The latter, truly almost illegible and scrawled draft almost certainly represents Ruskin\rquote 
s troubled attempt at revising his Lake District poem for August 1829 publication. But these poems, nos. 58\endash 60, are fragments, and so they were excluded from the Library Edition, just as they had been banned from }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 PJR}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864 . Again, throughout the poetry volume of the Library Edition, as in this case of \'93On Skiddaw and Derwent Water\'94 and its related fragments, Cook and Wedderburn rarely questioned Collingwood\rquote 
s judgments about selection, just as they carried on the practice of molding and polishing the texts\emdash policies that, by their time, perhaps no longer required explicit \'93instructions.\'94
\par \tab Cook and Wedderburn did make significant contributions. Although they reprinted Collingwood\rquote s 1891 \'93Preliminary Note on the Original MSS. of the Poems\'94 in their 1903 volume of }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Poems}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
, they expanded Collingwood\rquote s descriptions of the notebooks with sequential lists of the titles that the notebooks contain (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Works}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , 2:529\endash 
34), and later, in the bibliography volume of the Library Edition, they added very slight descriptions of the prose juvenilia that Collingwood had omitted (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Works}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , 38:205\endash 
6). Especially usefully, Cook and Wedderburn paired the descriptive bibliography with a chronological list of the individual poems contained in the notebooks, the \'93Chronology of Ruskin\rquote s Juvenilia\'94 (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Works}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864 , 2:535\endash 41). A separate chronology is essential since the specific dates of individual items in the notebooks can be gathered from Collingwood\rquote s \'93Note\'94\emdash even as expanded in the Library Edition\emdash 
only with difficulty, if at all. The \'93Chronology\'94 excludes prose, however\emdash an unhelpful decision, since prose works such as Ruskin\rquote s Mineralogical Dictionary, fict
ional tales, sermons, lesson exercises, and essays are integrally connected to his poems. Prose and poetry must be chronologically ordered together, since most of Ruskin\rquote 
s early prose, like many of the poems, was not dated by him, and so the only means to date such important prose works as the childhood sermons\emdash unless they chance to be mentioned in the family letters\emdash 
is to draw inferences from their position in the notebooks relative to the poems.
\par \tab The most serious problem with the Library Edition \'93Chronology\'94 is its perpetuation of Collingwood\rquote 
s errors in dating. When Cook and Wedderburn ventured to dissent, they nearly always got it wrong, sometimes newly misdating a poem that Collingwood had dated accurately. Their dates for prose works, in the few cases 
where they hazarded them, were especially groundless, reliant on little more than biographical and anecdotal guesswork. For example, they seriously misdated the important Sermon Books on the basis of vague inferences drawn from }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 
Praeterita}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , as Burd remarks in an article relaying Viljoen\rquote s work on the sermons (\'93Ruskin\rquote s Testament,\'94 1\endash 
3); and their datings of the essays and tales of the later 1830s, dates that have always been taken for granted, turn out similarly to be based on Ruskin\rquote s decidedly unreliable memories in the autobiography.
\par \tab The countless limitations of the Library Edition have been acknowledged, if not always heeded in critical practice, since the 1950s, when Helen Gill Viljoen inveighed against the competence of its editing (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RSH}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864 , 1\endash 35). Hers wa
s the next major stage of editing the early Ruskin, although much of her bibliographic labor remained unpublished in her lifetime, and it is still available only in typescripts kept among the Helen Gill Viljoen Papers at the Pierpont Morgan Library. Viljo
en was the first and only previous scholar to recognize the need for, and partially to undertake, a }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 systematic}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  revision of Collingwood\rquote s and Cook and Wedderburn\rquote 
s bibliographies and chronology of the early manuscripts.
\par \tab Viljoen advanced exponentially what had already emerged as an almost peculiarly American interest in Ruskin\rquote 
s childhood writing and early family history. The greatest of the English collectors, John Howard Whitehouse, restricted his interest in the earlier Ruskin to the drawings\emdash one of Whitehouse\rquote s earliest acquisitions being Ruskin\rquote s \'93
first\'94 sketchbook. In 1935 Whitehouse was apparently offered only the remaining drawings, not the manuscripts, in the possession of the Boston dealer Charles E. Goodspeed, although Goodspeed certainly still held a great deal of Ruskin\rquote 
s juvenilia from the 1931 Sotheby\rquote s sale (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RBB}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  38, 136\endash 39).}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864  In general, according to Dearden, Whitehouse\rquote 
s affections were focused more on the Ruskin drawings he collected than on the manuscripts. As it chanced, in the sale of draw
ings to Whitehouse, Goodspeed was able to restore a few leaves that had been removed from the early sketchbook, MS VIIIA (James S. Dearden, \'93The Ruskin Galleries at Bembridge School, Isle of Wight,\'94 }{\i\insrsid2771864 
Bulletin of the John Rylands Library}{\insrsid2771864  51, no. 2 [Spring 1969]: 318, 319).}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 By comparison, American collectors took a notable interest in the Ruskin juvenilia from the earliest availability of those manuscripts. Henry Huntington in San Marino, Pierpont Morgan in New York, and William Bixby in St. Louis bought earl
y Ruskin manuscripts in the first decades of the century (although those magnates, of course, focused primarily on the major manuscripts of Ruskin\rquote s maturity). At the Sotheby sales of 1930\endash 
31, juvenilia was acquired for Yale directly; and the Yale collection eventually profited, as did the Princeton library, by Charles Goodspeed\rquote s eager bidding for the juvenilia lots at Sotheby\rquote 
s. Shortly before those sales, the important Sermon Books were given outright to an American collector (albeit Welsh-born) by a Coniston resident, who apparently had only a passing acquaintance with the collector (see \'93
Provenance of the Major Manuscripts,\'94 }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Viljoen}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 ). Helen Viljoen was also a modestly active buyer during the decades after the sales of 1930\endash 31.
\par \tab One can only speculate why English collectors left the early writings to Americans. The trend is perplexing, since initial reports on the manuscript juvenilia by its new American owners often reflected the language and perspective of Collingwood
\rquote s }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Life}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  and }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 PJR}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , and Collingwood can surely be credited with first stirring interest in the juvenilia.}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote 
\pard\plain \s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864  See, e.g., Kenneth G. Weihe, \'93
A Collection of Ruskin Manuscripts,\'94 }{\i\insrsid2771864 YULG}{\insrsid2771864  5, no. 3 (January 1931): 47\endash 49, which in places borrows phrases verbatim from Collingwood, }{\i\insrsid2771864 Life}{\insrsid2771864 . Goodspeed\rquote s fascin
ation with Ruskin\rquote s early handwriting is also probably influenced by Collingwood (see, e.g., part 2, MS IA, \'93Provenance\'94).}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  As I argued above (see also my \'93Self and Revision\'94
), strict control over the selection and editing of the early writings can be traced to the attitudes of Ruskin himself. Perhaps vestiges of these attitudes influenced English collecting. Whitehouse\rquote s connections with the elder Ruskin\rquote 
s inner circle might explain why he troubled to acquire only transcripts, and no originals, of the early manuscripts (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RBB}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 143). The transcripts had been prepared by Cook and Wedderburn for the Library Edition, and perhaps Whitehouse regarded these to be as good as\emdash or, in respect to editorial intervention, better than\emdash the manuscripts themselves. Certainly, i
t is significant that the most outstanding exception to the English willingness to let go of the earlier manuscripts was F. J. Sharp, and Sharp worked entirely apart from the inner circle of English Ruskinians. Subsequently, Sharp\rquote 
s appreciation of the earlier Ruskin helped to cement his association with Viljoen.
\par \tab With the dispersal of Ruskin\rquote s manuscripts and library in the sales of the 1930s, Viljoen could no longer enjoy the benefit, as she had done years earlier in the Brantwood study, of working with s
o many of the manuscripts within easy reach. But with the major collections of the early Ruskin manuscripts now in America at Yale, Princeton, the Huntington, and the Pierpont Morgan libraries (and the Morgan\rquote 
s holdings would later become more important with Viljoen\rquote s own donations of Sharp\rquote 
s and her own Ruskin manuscripts), she was able to attack the problem of the juvenilia, as English scholars could no longer so readily attempt. The resulting document, Viljoen\rquote s \'93Dating MSS. of Boyhood,\'94 was prepared as 
an appendix, first to her unpublished edition of Ruskin\rquote s childhood sermons, the so-called Sermons on the Pentateuch, and then to her unfinished biography of Ruskin (HGVP, boxes D.V, E.IX).
\par \tab The \'93Dating MSS. of Boyhood\'94 first revealed to me the necessity of undertaking a systematic and comprehensive revision of the earlier bibliographies. Viljoen\rquote 
s scrupulous and often brilliant research has inestimably aided my own, and I hope I have acknowledged throughout this edition all the ways that my bibliographic arguments originated with her. I have also found an invaluable resource in Viljoen\rquote 
s transcriptions of unpublished texts of juvenilia, included among her papers at the Morgan. Her transcriptions must be checked against the originals, for Viljoen was a surpr
isingly careless copyist; nonetheless, her notes provide an invaluable and convenient guide to widely dispersed manuscripts.
\par \tab Even the \'93Dating MSS. of Boyhood,\'94 however, has proved in need of extensive revision and supplementation. First, Viljoen limited the \'93Dating MSS. of Boyhood\'94 to emending Collingwood\rquote 
s descriptive bibliography. Juggling her document with Collingwood\rquote s \'93Note\'94 and with Cook and Wedderburn\rquote s revised \'93Note\'94 and \'93Chronology\'94 is impossibly awkward. Previous scholarship needs to be replaced 
by a single, comprehensive bibliography and chronology. Second, more serious limitations in Viljoen\rquote s \'93Dating MSS. of Boyhood\'94
 arise from her having committed errors of her own in dating nearly all the major manuscripts that she chose to review. Third, while other papers among the materials for her Ruskin biography testify to her thorough study of the juvenilia, in \'93
Dating MSS. of Boyhood\'94 she deferred to Collingwood\rquote s descriptions of several major manuscripts, which do in fact require reexamination, and she was altogether unacquainted with at least one manuscript.}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn 
{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864 
 Viljoen could not have been unaware of an early commonplace book kept jointly by father and son (MS IC; Bem MS 88), since this formed part of the Adams bequest to the Bembridge Ruskin Galleries (}{\i\insrsid2771864 RBB}{\insrsid2771864 
 198). I do not know whether she actually visited the Huntington collection (see }{\i\insrsid2771864 RSH}{\insrsid2771864  194 n. 16).}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 Several other manuscripts, which she deliberately omitted from her appendix, can be found transcribed in papers among her working notes on the juvenilia (HGVP, box F), but these manuscripts\rquote  descriptions are entrusted to Collingwood as a \'93
reliable . . . guide through the maze of juvenilia analyzed in his edition of the poems\'94 (\'93Dating MSS. of Boyhood,\'94 unnumbered cover page). Specifically, she does not disc
uss what Cook and Wedderburn called MS IA (she lists as her IA what Cook and Wedderburn label IB, but, since her general practice was to maintain earlier designations, I take this to be an unintentional error), and she let stand Collingwood\rquote 
s descriptions of MSS V through XI. I find much to question, however, in what Viljoen accepts from Collingwood; and, of the manuscripts she does analyze in \'93Dating MSS. of Boyhood,\'94
 I have found it necessary to revise, at least in part, her datings of MSS IB (i.e., what she calls IA), II, IIA\endash E, III, IIIA, IVA, IVB, IVC, and IVD. Viljoen\rquote s work is an inspiring and invaluable resource, but by no means infallible.
\par \tab Critical and biographical interest in Ruskin\rquote s early writings and drawings started with Ruskin himself. He reprinted his earliest compositions in }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Queen of the Air}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 
Fors Clavigera}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , and }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Praeterita}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  to illustrate the lifelong consistency of his thought, pointing out to us the lasting importance of studying his early and later writing together.}{
\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864 
\tab 15. In }{\i\insrsid2771864 Queen of the Air}{\insrsid2771864 , Ruskin \'93risk[ed] whatever charge of folly may come on me, for printing one of my many childish rhymes,\'94 since \'93the weak little rhyme\'94 powerfully illustrated \'93
all that I ever could be, and all that I cannot be\'94 (}{\i\insrsid2771864 Works}{\insrsid2771864 , 19:396). With autobiography continuing as a central mode of argument\emdash especially in }{\i\insrsid2771864 Fors Clavigera}{\insrsid2771864 
 and in the autobiography proper, }{\i\insrsid2771864 Praeterita}{\insrsid2771864 , which grew out of passages in }{\i\insrsid2771864 Fors}{\insrsid2771864 \emdash Ruskin frequently points to his early writing for origins of his temperament (see, e.g., }{
\i\insrsid2771864 Works}{\insrsid2771864 , 35:51\endash 57).}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 Ruskin also contributed to the myths and prohibitions that have misdirected, or at least skewed, how and what portions of the early writing should be read. As we approach the centenery of Ruskin\rquote s death, many of those myths and misdirections have
 been overcome by the exemplary editorial standards set by Viljoen\rquote s unpublished edition of the childhood sermons; Van Akin Burd\rquote s }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Ruskin Family Letters}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 ; James Dearden\rquote s editions of }{
\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Iteriad}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  and other juvenile poems, and Dearden\rquote s many bibliographic articles; and Dearden and Burd\rquote s edition of the 1830 diary (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 TLC}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 ).}{
\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864 
 Dearden has occasionally rendered previously unpublished poems available through the Bembridge School press, the Yellowsands Press; these printings are listed where appropriate in part 1.}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  Among recent critics, Sheila Emerson (}{
\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RGI}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 ), C. Stephen Finley (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 NC}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 ), and John Dixon Hunt (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 WS}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
) stand out for their recognition that what meets the eye in the Library Edition should not be taken for granted, and for their important insights gained by returning to the archives.}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864  Finley (}{\i\insrsid2771864 NC}{\insrsid2771864 
) grounds the study of Ruskin\rquote s theology in the unpublished sermons written in boyhood. Among recent biographers, John Dixon Hunt (}{\i\insrsid2771864 WS}{\insrsid2771864 ) stands out for his use of the manuscript juvenilia to cut through Ruskin
\rquote s later mythologizing of his childhood. For Emerson, see n. 9 above. My own work using unpublished juvenilia includes \'93Ruskin\rquote s }{\i\insrsid2771864 Praeterita}{\insrsid2771864  and Landscape in Evangelical Children\rquote s Education,
\'94 }{\i\insrsid2771864 Nineteenth-Century Literature}{\insrsid2771864  44, no. 1 (June 1989): 45\endash 66; \'93\lquote Out of the Same Mouth Proceedeth Blessing and Cursing\rquote : Ruskin as the \lquote Strange Disciple,\rquote \'94 }{
\i\insrsid2771864 Modern Philology}{\insrsid2771864  90, no. 3 (February 1993): 360\endash 80; \'93The Psychology of Fragmentation\'94; and \'93Self and Revision.\'94}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 These achievements, however, have been limited to selected segments of the early Ruskin manuscripts. No bibliographic review of the early manuscripts has been attempted since Viljoen\rquote 
s, and no review has been attempted comprehensively since Collingwood\rquote s, and Cook and Wedderburn\rquote s. Consequently, scholarship has remained haunted by the earlier editors\rquote 
 errors, omissions, and suppressions, and this edition seeks to clear the way for a more thorough and accurate understanding of Ruskin.
\par 
\par THE DESIGN OF THIS EDITION
\par \tab The edition is divided in two parts. Part 1 presents a revised and comprehensive chronology of all known individual prose and poetry pieces\emdash published or unpublished, extant or lost\emdash 
contained in the major early manuscripts, preserved on stray sheets 
elsewhere, or known at least by title. Next, the whereabouts and publication (if any) of each item is identified. Each item is then followed by a note justifying its dating, and discussing its sources and compositional history\emdash 
more or less lengthily, depen
ding on the complexity of the work. Part 1 also selectively prints texts of works that are either previously unpublished or published with such invasive emendations by earlier editors as to justify a new text. Where silent editorial emendations in existin
g printed texts are localized or minor, a textual note summarizing the differences between the manuscript and printed text is deemed sufficient.
\par \tab Part 2 presents a revised and comprehensive descriptive bibliography. For each known major manuscript of juveni
lia, I supply its physical characteristics and provenance, enumerate its contents, and attempt to reconstruct the order and circumstances of its composition\emdash 
that is, the compositional history of the major manuscript, as opposed to that of an individual title contained therein, which is presented in part 1.
\par \tab Throughout this edition, }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 MS}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  followed by a roman numeral refers to the manuscripts described in part 2; }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 no}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
. followed by an arabic numeral refers to individual items in part 1.
\par \tab I do not attempt to list Ruskin\rquote s drawings, better left to the expertise of art historians. In part 2, I do include, however, descriptions of Ruskin\rquote s first two sketchbooks (MSS VIIIA, VIIIB), dating from 1831\endash 
32, since the logic of the edition demands that they be included in part 2 as major early manuscripts. Their inclusion is necessitated, moreover, by the prose writings contained in one of them.
\par \tab In part 1, I also omit the letters published in }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RFL}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , which the reader may easily compare against the chronology. I do, on a few occasions in part 1 in connection with other items, dispute Burd\rquote 
s dating of a letter; and, in part 2, where MS XI is described, which contains letters, I have been able to supply portions of some letters for the first time, portions that were omitted from }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RFL}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 . 
All the poems printed in }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RFL}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , as a matter of course, will be found listed in the chronology, part 1.  
\par \tab My editorial principles governing the various segments of parts 1 and 2 are explained in greater detail below. First, a broad survey of Ruskin\rquote s early writing will help to orient the reader.
\par 
\par A PRELIMINARY DESCRIPTIVE AND ANALYTICAL OVERVIEW OF THE JUVENILIA
\par Earliest Writing and Edgeworthian Education
\par \tab Ruskin\rquote s earliest extant juvenilia dates from 1826, about age seven, aside from probably earlier childis
h scrawls, simple drawings, and practice writing of his name on the flyleaves of his books. Most of the writing from 1826, when Ruskin was seven, through about 1831 is contained in the \'93Red Books\'94
 (MSS I, III, IIIA, IV, IVA, IVB, IVC), a uniform set of seven store-bought notebooks with reddish-brown, flexible leather covers (described as roan in Sotheby }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Cat}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
. 1930), each approximately ten by fifteen centimeters. }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Red Books}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  was Ruskin\rquote s own term, used both in childhood, when referring to them in letters to his father (e.g., }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RFL}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864  192), and in later years, when reoccu\-pying his old nursery rooms atop the Herne Hill house and meditating on his childhood for }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Fors}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  and }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Praeterita}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864  (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Ruskin\rquote s Camberwell}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , 13\endash 14). Perhaps it was on one of the latter occasions that he wrote }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Red Book}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 and an assigned number inside some of these.
\par \tab Contemporane\-ous and in conformity with the Red Books, there also survive three handmade pamphlets (MSS IB, II, and one containing no. 57 now cut apart and its leaves tipped into MS V; MS IB was later
 professionally bound). Ruskin constructed these from plain paper cut to about the size of the Red Books, folded once and sewed. One pamphlet (see no. 57) was covered with pinkish violet paper, perhaps to make its color uniform with the Red Books. Another
 (MS II) bears the heading \'93Vol I,\'94 connecting it with what he called his series of \'93works\'94 (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RFL}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , 187).
\par \tab These early \'93works\'94 might be described as bookmaking as much as writing. From the start in MS I, although Ruskin\rquote s pencil printing is still fairly crude, he thinks to \'93justi\-fy\'94 the margins, enclose his illus\-tra\-
tions in frames and number them as \'93plates,\'94 and provide title pages and even colophons. In contents, the Red Books imitate a range of genres, from children\rquote s verse and didactic tales to such adult forms as travel narrative and topographi\-
c verse. In this imitative bookmaking, Ruskin was probably not unusual among Victorian and Edwardian children. Less famous childhoods also left behind scientific \'93monographs,\'94 derivative \'93histories,\'94 and diaries 
that include illustrated poetry. Some families even privately circulated \'93magazines,\'94 with elaborate nursery pretenses to real-life editorship.}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864  Olivia Bell and Alan Bell, \'93
Children's Manuscript Magazines in the Bodleian Library,\'94 and A. O. J. Cockshut, \'93Children\rquote s Diaries,\'94 both in }{\i\insrsid2771864 Children and Their Books: A Celebration of the Work of Iona and Peter Opie}{\insrsid2771864 
, ed. Gillian Avery and Julia Briggs (Oxford: Clarendon, 1989), 399\endash 412, and 381\endash 98, esp. 404\endash 6, 388\endash 89, 392\endash 94, 408.}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  For example, a handmade magazine, \'93The Beresford Spy,\'94
 was produced by the children of Reverend Edward Andrews, Ruskin\rquote s tutor, to take the place of Andrews\rquote s erstwhile professional magazine, the }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Spiritual Times}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
, which had printed the writing of the Andrews brood, as well as Ruskin\rquote s poetry.}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864  Ian Anstruther, }{\i\insrsid2771864 Coventry Patmore\rquote s Angel: A Study of Coventry Patmore, His Wife Emily, and}{\insrsid2771864 
 The Angel in the House (London: Haggerston, 1992), 17\endash 18.}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  Childhood authorship is encouraged in the stories of Maria Edgeworth, which contains stories within stories ostensibly written by child characters.}{
\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864 
 See, e.g., \'93Rivuletta, A Dream\'94 by a girl of thirteen, and \'93The Injured Ass\'94 by a boy in eleven, both in Edgeworth, }{\i\insrsid2771864 Rosamond}{\insrsid2771864 , part 1, 26\endash 27, 49\endash 56.}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 The distinction setting apart Ruskin\rquote s Red Books fr
om this common Victorian childhood pastime lay in the ambitious scope he set for himself, and the genius and almost incredible pace and flexibility by which he was able to live up to his ambitions. 
\par \tab Ruskin\rquote s earliest writing bears the stamp of the progressive methods of education advocated by Richard and Maria Edgeworth. Famously, three of Ruskin\rquote 
s Red Books (MSS I, III, IIIA, and partial draft in MS II) were initially used between 1826 and 1829 to contain fair copies of \'93Harry and Lucy,\'94 his adaptations of Maria Edgeworth\rquote s series of tales }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Early Lessons}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864 , separately titled }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 The Parent\rquote s Assistant}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Harry and Lucy}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Frank}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , }{
\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Rosamond}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , and }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Harry and Lucy Concluded}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 .}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864  The bibliography of the Edgeworths\rquote  children
\rquote s books is notoriously confusing. The following is drawn from Marilyn Butler, }{\i\insrsid2771864 Maria Edgewoth: A Literary Life}{\insrsid2771864  (Oxford: Clarendon, 1972), 63\endash 64, 165\endash 68, and from the }{\i\insrsid2771864 
New Cambridge Bibliography of English Literature}{\insrsid2771864 . }{\i\insrsid2771864 Harry and Lucy}{\insrsid2771864 , in its earliest version along with its incipient theory of education, was orig
inally devised by Richard Lovell Edgeworth and his wife Honora in 1779\endash 80. This remained unpublished, until revised by Richard and his daughter Maria for publication in 1801, along with the other narratives, largely of Maria\rquote 
s composition. This first published }{\i\insrsid2771864 Early Lessons}{\insrsid2771864  consisted of }{\i\insrsid2771864 Harry and Lucy}{\insrsid2771864 , pts. 1\endash 2 (1801); }{\i\insrsid2771864 Rosamond}{\insrsid2771864 , pts. 1\endash 3 (1801); }{
\i\insrsid2771864 Frank}{\insrsid2771864 , pts. 1\endash 4 (1801); and a volume of stories, which completed the series in 1801\endash 2. Some of the stories included in the }{\i\insrsid2771864 Early Lessons}{\insrsid2771864  (not only anthologized in t
he 1801\endash 2 volume but incorporated with the other narratives) had been transferred from an earlier publication }{\i\insrsid2771864 The Parent\rquote s Assistant: or, Stories for Children}{\insrsid2771864  (1795 or 1796, 1800). }{\i\insrsid2771864 
Continuation of Early Lessons}{\insrsid2771864  followed in 1814, and, after Richard\rquote s death, Maria carried on alone with }{\i\insrsid2771864 Rosamond: A Sequel to Early Lessons}{\insrsid2771864  (1821); }{\i\insrsid2771864 
Frank: A Sequel to Frank in Early Lessons}{\insrsid2771864  (1822); and }{\i\insrsid2771864 Harry and Lucy Concluded: Being the Last Part of Early Lessons}{\insrsid2771864  (1825).}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  Activities and experiments drawn from Edgeworth
\rquote s stories and from Jeremiah Joyce\rquote s }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Scientific Dialogues}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  (1807; see nos. 3, 20) are blended with the Ruskin family\rquote s actual travels and experiences. In his first two volumes of \'93
Harry and Lucy\'94 (MSS I, III [1826\endash 28]), Ruskin probably identified with either or both characters Harry and Lucy, although in the portions set at his aunt\rquote s home in Perth, Scotland, he may have associated \'93Lucy\'94
 with his cousins Jessie and Mary Richardson. In the third volume (MS IIIA, 1828), Ruskin concentrates less on travel adventures and more on the family\rquote 
s domestic activities at Herne Hill. Having written this volume after his cousin Mary Richardson had come to live with the family, Ruskin appears to identify more exclusively with Harry, who takes a decidedly preceptorial role over Lucy
, identified with Mary. Less impulsive than in the two first volumes, and even priggishly strict with Lucy, Harry determines the daily round as teaching Lucy the constellations before breakfast, lessons after breakfast, drawing maps until dinner, correcti
ng Virgil \'93for his papa\'94 and more mapmaking in the afternoon, and listening to papa read }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Don Quixote}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  until bed (no. 32).
\par \tab Seen whole, the earlier juvenilia reveals how extensively the Ruskins invested in the Edgeworths\rquote  program. Ruskin\rquote s first extant poem and slightly later works (nos. 1, ??) are drawn from }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Evenings at Home}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864  (1792\endash 96), by Anna Laetitia Barbauld and her brother Dr. John Aiken. Mrs. Barbauld\rquote s hymns and narratives were recommended by Richard Edgeworth as a child\rquote s first books, because the pleas
urable tales animate children with the desire to learn to read for themselves. Another Edgeworth recommendation, Thomas Day\rquote s }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Sandford and Merton}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  (1783\endash 89) is declared Harry\rquote s \'93
favourite history\'94 in one of Ruskin\rquote s narratives (no. 20). Day was a close friend and associate of the Edgeworths, although a more theoretical and committed Rousseauist than they believed prudent.
\par \tab In another of Ruskin\rquote s very first poems (no. 5), he imitates Erasmus Darwin, the poet of the Lunar Society. This was the circle of scientists, inventors, and industrialists, who stimulated the Edgeworths\rquote  intellectual life.}{
\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864 
 See Butler, Maria Edgewoth, 33\endash 35, 58\endash 61; and Robert E. Schofield, The Lunar Society of Birmingham: A Social History of Provincial Science and Industry in Eighteenth-Century England (Oxford: Clarendon, 1963), 204\endash 10.}}}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864  Darwin\rquote s heroic couplets in }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 The Botanic Garden}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  (1789\endash 91) may also lie behind Ruskin\rquote s catalog of plants in his \'93Eudosia, or a Poem on the Universe\'94
 (no. 27), but the title is taken from a production by Capell Lofft (1781), another poet of the scientific enlightenment. Ruskin\rquote s introduction to these poets probably came through their frequent quotation in Jeremiah Joyce\rquote s }{
\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Scientific Dialogues}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , a systematic course in mechanics, astronomy, hydrostatics, pneumatics, optics, and electricity. Joyce\rquote s prose is ornamented with extracts from this learned verse, just as Darwin
\rquote s poem is annotated with extensive scientific notes. Ruskin adopts this elegant manner, after his fashion, in his \'93Harry and Lucy.\'94 After imitating Joyce\rquote s experiments\emdash indeed, often copying them verbatim\emdash 
he caps the prose with poems on natural history and the industrial sublime (MS I).
\par \tab Ruskin also imitates the conversational mode favored by the Edgeworths and by Jeremiah Joyce, who, on his title page, attributes his \'93dialogue\'94 manner to the Edgeworths\rquote  recommendations in }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Practical Education}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864  (1798\endash 1801). Dialogue promotes the fundamental premise of the Edgeworth system, that appeals should be made to children\rquote s reason, and that they should be encouraged to think for themselves. Ruskin\rquote 
s Harry and Lucy, much like Edgeworth\rquote s Frank and the much beleaguered Rosamond, are quizzed by Mamma, who treats ordinary events as opportunities to admonish self-discipline or to practice multiplication tables. Papa,
 in both Ruskin and Edgeworth, is less prone to these Pumblechookian methods, and is reserved for more exciting and brilliant experiments and excursions.
\par \tab If the boy was following approved Enlightenment models, the elder Ruskin was nonetheless correct in }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Praeterita}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 to detect gestures characteristically his own, when, for example, at the close of his first \'93Harry and Lucy\'94 (no. 3) he combines an electrical experiment from Joyce, not just with elegant scientific verse, but with a haunting image from Lord Byro
n. In part, the romance in Ruskin\rquote s early writing shows merely that he possessed the materials to temper the Edgeworth\rquote s hostility to \'93
inflaming the imagination, or exciting a restless spirit of adventure, by exhibiting false views of life, and creating hopes which, in the ordinary course of things, cannot be realized\'94 (preface to }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Parent\rquote s Assistant}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864 ). It is better for Rosamond to tour a cotton factory, even though she is too young to understand the machinery, than to dream over imaginary things (Edgeworth, }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Rosamond}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
, part 3, 149). That Ruskin was untroubled by the fancy and fact dichotomy does not seem surprising in a family that regularly read Scott and Byron. The more important division indicated by Ruskin\rquote s departures from Edgeworthian discipline is a temp
eramental one between him and his mother.
\par \tab As Michael Brooks has remarked, the Edgeworths\rquote  educational program may have been more congenial temperamentally to Margaret Ruskin than to her son.}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864  Michael Brooks, \'93
Love and Possession in a Victorian Household: The Example of the Ruskins,\'94 in The Victorian Family: Structure and Stresses, ed. Anthony S. Wohl (New York: St. Martin\rquote s, 1978), 92.}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 The Edgeworths provided a system, and method must have appealed to a woman, whose nearly first words in Ruskin\rquote s portrayal of her are to \'93do one thing at once\'94 (no. 3).
\par 
\par Although rationalist mentors may have posed fundamental challenges to Margaret Ruskin\rquote s evangelicalism\emdash just as Enlightenment and Rousseauist approaches to education provoked Mrs. Sherwood, Ruskin\rquote s favorite evangelical children
\rquote s writer\emdash the Edgeworths were pragmatic enough that Margaret, like Mrs. Sherwood, was able to take what she wanted from their stories, while disputing the Rousseauist premises. What she wanted was system, reflected, as Brooks
 points out, in Margaret\rquote s constant and painstaking commitment to her child\rquote s education and her emphasis on children learning to reflect on his own thought processes. These progressive aims, however, could be detached from Rousseau\rquote 
s fundamental conviction that the natural child should be granted his birthright of freedom. Instead, the Edgeworthian system of children thinking }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 for}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  themselves could be urged toward thinking }{
\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 about}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  themselves\emdash Protestant self-reflection. In that way, the sinful, natural child would be curbed and made obedient to Christian, parental authority.}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote 
\pard\plain \s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864 
 Brooks, 91. On Ruskin and Mrs. Sherwood, see my \'93Ruskin\rquote s }{\i\insrsid2771864 Praeterita}{\insrsid2771864  and Landscape in Evangelical Children\rquote s Education,\'94 }{\i\insrsid2771864 Nineteenth-Century Literature}{\insrsid2771864 
 44, no. 1 (June 1989): 45\endash 66. There, I argue that Mrs. Sherwood, in Ruskin\rquote s favorite of the novels, }{\i\insrsid2771864 Henry Milner}{\insrsid2771864 
, avoids pressing even the Protestant tradition of self-examination on her young audience, in favor of enforcing the child\rquote s trust and obedience\emdash a recourse that survives partly in the strategies of deferring pain and conflict in }{
\i\insrsid2771864 Praeterita}{\insrsid2771864 , in favor of parental tribute. Now, I would confirm my point about Ruskin\rquote s childhood (and adulthood) evasion of emotional distress, which the full spectacle of the early writing proves in even mor
e interesting ways psychologically; however, I would refine that point to add that Ruskin was very early, and very precociously interested in the processes of his own mind\emdash if, by that, one refers to what Sheila Emerson has called \'93
the laws of motion\'94 that 
Ruskin believed reflected both in his own mind on paper and in the outward nature he beheld. Margaret Ruskin, for her part, was probably more prone than Mrs. Sherwood to enforce on children, alongside obedience, the Protestant duty of self-examination; it
 
was in such terms that she probably understood the progressive Edgeworthian recommendation that children reason their way to conclusions, rather than merely accept them. When she read to the ten-year-old Ruskin and his cousin Mary from Adam Smith, that th
ey may \'93observe something of the working of their own minds,\'94 her ultimate aim was that they gain \'93more knowledge [of] themselves\'94 (}{\i\insrsid2771864 RFL}{\insrsid2771864  186). }}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
\par 
\par \tab What at times appears characteristic of Ruskin\rquote s response to these instructors, whether Edgeworthian or evangelical, are his wily dodges. Joyce\rquote s }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Dialogues}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 are carefully arranged for the methodical acquisition of concepts, but Ruskin, in no. 3, begins in the middle of Joyce\rquote s course, with pneumatics, and then works backwards even within that series of experiments. . . .
\par \tab Ruskin\rquote s obedience or resistence to specific forms of training were probably complex. When Ruskin declares in }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Fors Clavigera}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  and }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Praeterita}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 that he \'93went on to amuse myself, in my own way, learnt whole words at a time, as I did patterns\'94 (28:274; 35:23), he may be remembering the stress on acquisition of vocabulary in Joyce\rquote s }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Dialogues}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864  and in }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Harry and Lucy}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , both of which contain long glossaries and insist on a systematic accumulation of terms. Ruskin\rquote s memory of solitary learning seems to counter th
e Edgeworthians\rquote  contention that vocabulary, like all subjects, \'93should be made a subject of conversation\'94; however, Edgeworth also respected the child\rquote 
s pleasure as the best arbiter of what and how much should be read, and above all trained the child\rquote s \'93habit of thinking for yourself\'94 (Edgeworth, }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Frank}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , 80, 104)....
\par \tab Questions of how Edgeworthian or any other system of education was adopted by the elder Ruskins and how it was received cannot be considered apart from the family\rquote s psychology....
\par 
\par \tab The \'93Harry and Lucy\'94 books bear comparison with that other celebrated body of Victorian juvenilia, the Bront\'eb children\rquote s handmade books, in that both simulate in miniature the appearance of printed works. In content also, Ruskin
\rquote s \'93Harry and Lucy\'94 narratives are comparable to the Bront\'eb \'93sagas,\'94 in that the authors project themselves as semireal, semifictional characters into fictive worlds modeled on their reading. The Bront\'eb children interact as \'93
little queens\'94 and \'93little king\'94 with characters derived from }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Blackwood\rquote s}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  and other fiction and with current historical heroes such as the Duke of Wellington.}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 
\chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864  Christine Alexander, }{
\i\insrsid2771864 The Early Writings of Charlotte Bront\'eb}{\insrsid2771864  (Buffalo, N.Y.: Prometheus, 1983), 11\endash 26, 46.}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  Similarly, Ruskin enters imaginatively into the education
al activities of Maria and Richard Edgeworth\rquote s Harry and Lucy.
\par \tab Unlike the Bront\'eb sagas, Ruskin\rquote s juvenilia did not continue to develop a complex, ongoing fictive world. Charlotte Bront\'eb lingered so long in her childhood\rquote s imaginative world that her first 
efforts at mature fiction suffered from embroilment in the earlier sagas.}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864  Ibid., 203\endash 12.}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  Ruskin, on the other hand, began his \'93mature\'94 work in childhood. While the earlier \'93
Harry and Lucy\'94 books show charming (and extraordinarily talented) imitations of children\rquote s stories and verse, within a few years the juvenilia so elaborately copies an adult library that the pieces appear more to be a child\rquote 
s offering in miniature of adult productions beyond his years. In reading the Bront\'eb sagas, one feels oneself trespassing deeper and deeper into an arcane wonderland wrought by the authors for their private adventuring\emdash 
an effect that would be heightened, I assume, by the privilege of poring over Charlotte\rquote s microscopic handwriting and preciously tiny booklets. Ruskin\rquote 
s hand and booklets, too, are small enough to make reading uncomfortable at times, but they do not begin to approach Charlotte\rquote s feats. In reading the early Ruskin, rather, one is invited to survey a public spectacle\emdash from his paired epics 
\'93Iteriad\'94 and \'93Athens\'94 to his \'93Poem on the Universe\'94 called \'93Eudosia\'94\emdash and to admire the mere child who is showing off to his parents \'93how well he could do it\'94 (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Works}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
, 35:72). At the same time, the more one studies the early Ruskin especially of the rough-draft notebooks
 (MSS VI, VIII), the more one is struck by how, behind the public performances and spilling into them, Ruskin reveals secrets, fantasies, and emotional turmoil. Ruskin encoded these secrets in various ways, perhaps concealing turmoil even from himself, bu
t the emotions nonetheless continue to trouble his characteristically ebullient voice.
\par \tab The \'93Harry and Lucy\'94 books are filled out with short poems. In MS I, the verses are based partly on what he found in children\rquote s books, although some of these poems, such as the previously unpublished \'93On Papa\rquote s Leaving Home\'94
 (no. 8), already display a highly inventive and interesting emotional response to his father\rquote s departures on business trips; other poems, such as \'93On Scotland\'94 (no. 6) may already show Ruskin respondi
ng to family deaths. Loss, whether by death or absence, is a prominent theme in the suppressed fragments; both \'93The Monastery\'94 (no. 46) and \'93Athens\'94 (no. 135) break off with the despondent farewells or the absences of older males.
\par \tab By 1827, in MS III, Ruskin is imitating adult polite verse in a section named \'93poetry discriptive\'94 (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 sic}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
), although, again, these poems already reveal an individualistic acuity in perception of visual relationships, as Emerson has remarked. Another verse grouping, also in MS III but dating from 1829, includes the versifi\-cation of the opening of Scott
\rquote s }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 The Monastery}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , Ruskin\rquote s project for \'93a novel\'94 (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RFL}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , 185). Also from 1829, the handmade booklet \'93
Battle of Waterloo . . . with Other Small Poems\'94 imitates the verse drama publications of the period. At about the same time, beginning in 1828, Ruskin exhibits a fine Augustan confidence in surveying the creation by devoting a Red Book (MS IV) to \'93
Eudosia; or, a Poem on the Universe.\'94
\par \tab Of the remainder of the earlier juvenilia, one Red Book was used in 1827 for Ruskin\rquote s first Latin exercises, prior to Andrews\rquote 
s instruction (MS IVA). Another Red Book (MS IVB) was begun as a personalized guidebook and itinerary for the family\rquote s English tour of 1828. Additionally, besides all these notebook productions, Ruskin celebrated his father\rquote s birth\-
days, New Year\rquote s, and sometimes his own birthday, by presenting John James with fancy copies of odes composed to commemorate the occasions, along with other kinds of poems. For these he used the most elabora
te print or script that he could muster at the time\emdash either his most careful early print in imitation of typeface or a \'93double\'94 print that, as a \'93Harry and Lucy\'94
 episode records, cost him so much time that he rarely again attempted it. Later, he employed a more rapid \'93copperplate\'94 hand, sometimes decorated with flourishes drawn an arithmetic and orthography primer (see }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RFL}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864 , 259, 261 n. 17). The presentation poems were copied on sheets folded vertically as a folio; then the folios were sometimes folded twice horizontally, like a letter, and a superscrip\-tion added to the outside\emdash typically, \'93
To My Father\'94 and a date. Many of these were bound later by Wedderburn in MSS IA and XI along with other miscellaneous poems and letters.
\par \tab \'93Eudosia\'94 eventually faltered in 1830, with only one volume on \'93Botany\'94 (containing book 1 and part of book 2) carried from flowers through a catalog of trees. From here, Ruskin went on undaunted to \'93Iteriad\'94
 (MS VII), a four-book verse account of the family tour to the Lakes in 1830, on which he worked until 1832. When, in 1831, he had finished drafting (but not fair-copying) \'93Iteriad,\'94 he began \'93Athens,\'94 a verse narrative of Xerxes\rquote 
 great march climaxing the Persian Wars. Since Ruskin was translating the }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Iliad}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  at the time, he no doubt was inspired to attempt the ultimate epic achievement: to pair an epic on travel adventure\emdash 
his own }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Odyssey}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  in \'93Iteriad,\'94 as it were\emdash with an epic on battle, his }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Iliad}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  in \'93Athens.\'94 Unlike \'93Iteriad,\'94 however, \'93Athens\'94
 was never fin\-ished, in its draft or its fair copy. Meanwhile, between 1829 and 1832, Ruskin was using a smaller notebook (MS V, not a Red Book) entitled \'93Miscellaneous Poetry\'94 to gather together fair copies of the shorter poems\emdash 
a sort of collected minor poems.
\par \tab A change is noticeable from about 1831, age twelve, when Ruskin was engaged in fair-copying \'93Iteriad\'94 and in drafting \'93Athens,\'94
 and when his home studies were extended to include modern languages, mathematics, more advanced Latin and Greek, and drawing tutelage.}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain 
\s16\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864  See Tim Hilton, }{\i\insrsid2771864 John Ruskin
: The Early Years, 1819\endash 1859}{\insrsid2771864  (New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 1985), 22\endash 24.}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 Now the Red Books were set aside for grander notebooks in half-calf or half-roan and marbled boards. As he would boast in early 1833, he required \'93additional space\'94 for \'93greater freedom & play of cogitation\'94 (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RFL}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864 , 274). In MS VII, he fair-copied his \'93Iteriad\'94 between 1831 and 1832 and started fair-copying \'93Athens.\'94 During the same period, 1831\endash 32, he kept his first separate sketchbooks, earlier drawings appearing mainly as 
\'93plates\'94 in the Red Books. The two sketchbooks exhibit picturesque sketches taken during tours of the southeast of England. Later, in 1833\endash 34, the remark\-
able Account of a Tour on the Continent (MS IX) imitates with astonishing fidelity the engraved plates and letter\-press of Samuel Rogers\rquote s }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Italy}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  and of the profession\-
al gift annuals to which Ruskin would soon be contrib\-uting verse.
\par \tab Besides the epics and poetic travelogues of this period, Ruskin\rquote s lessons are worked up as his own \'93published\'94 textbooks. In place of the 1827 Latin vocabulary lists in a Red Book, his 1832 translation of the first few books of the }{
\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Iliad}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  is presented in an elegant double-column pamphlet. A \'93Practical Geometry\'94 belonging to \'93Mast}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 r}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  Ruskin Jan}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 y}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864  21}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 st}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  1833\'94\emdash so inscribed probably when it was started (MS XIA) and elaborately handlettered in Gothic and copperplate scripts\emdash 
devotes each page to an elegant statement of a \'93problem\'94 and its solution in a neatly ruled geometric figure.
\par \tab Whether owing to the accident of preservation or to Ruskin\rquote 
s now regarding himself as a more workmanlike poet, there survive from this time two notebooks that serve for rough-drafting poetry before it was copied elsewhere (MSS VI, VIII). MS VIII, kept in continuous use between 1831 and 
1836 or 1837, is the primary source for poetry, stories, and drama related to Ruskin\rquote s tormented and unrequited first love affair, Ad\'e8le Domecq. Also starting about this time, the earlier Red Books are recycled as work\-
books (perhaps at the behest of John James, who was economical with paper).}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s16\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864  See }{\i\insrsid2771864 TLC}{\insrsid2771864 
, 19. Some of the features of the juvenilia manuscripts, such as the slightest indications of paragraph breaks and the haphazard word divisions in the Sermon Books, may be partly explained by John James\rquote s frugality with paper.}}}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864  Turned upside down and started anew from the end opposite to the earlier \'93Harry and Lucy\'94
 narratives, their remaining blank leaves and endboards exploited, or their newer entries even crossing the earlier material, the Red Books were now made to serve diverse interests\emdash 
articles on mineralogy, algebra and geometry exercises, and sketches that turn up in finished form as \'93plates\'94 in MS IX. The mineralogy notes and catalogs, which begin about 1830\endash 31 with a Red Book devoted to the subject (
MS IVC), evolve into the ambitious Mineralogical Dictionary (MS IVD [1831\endash 36]), Ruskin\rquote s own redaction of primers on geological identification and classification, such as Jameson\rquote s }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 System of Mineralogy}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864  or the geological articles in Loudon\rquote s }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Magazine of Natural History}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , to which Ruskin himself would contribute brief scientific papers in 1834.
\par \tab By their appearance, the Sermon Books (MSS IIA\endash E) seem positioned between the earlier juvenile Red Books and the later aspirations of the young scholar. By their date also, the sermons\rquote  composition belong to a transitional period, 1832
\endash 34. In some physical respects, the Sermon Books are similar to the earlier pamphlets constructed to conform with the Red Books. Handmade and miniature, the pamphlets measure only 9.5 by 1
5.5 centimeters, with a text space of only 7.5 by 15 centimeters, into which Ruskin packed roughly fifty lines and even seventy-five on some pages. By this time, however, the Red Books themselves were in their recycled stage of use, and in fact some of th
e Red Books were reused to draft the sermons. Moreover, the Sermon Books, despite their pre\-cious dimensions, appear more sober than the \'93Harry and Lucy\'94 books, linking them to the formal textbook presentations of contemporaneous and later prose
\emdash the }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Iliad}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  t
ranslation, the Mineralogical Dictionary, and, later, the first critical essays (MSS XB, no. 270; MS XIB). The ink script is studiously neat longhand, rather than the printing meant to imitate typeface that had been used for poetry before the \'93Iteriad.
\'94 Title headings follow a consis\-tent pattern and, appropriate to the solemn contents, show minimal ornamentation. The margins are \'93justified\'94 so rigor\-
ously that, rather than spoil the effect, words are divided according to how much fits on the line rather than by syllable; hyphens are omitted if space disallows; curlicues, commas, and dots are }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 added}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 to bring a short line to the margin (easily misread as punctuation by the unwary); and paragraphs are indicated with only the barest indentation or with only a slight line space.
\par \tab In content as well, the Sermon Books are especially interesting as reflecting both a self-conscious childishness and a rapidly maturing thought and learning. Although the persona most frequently impersonates an elder, learned divine expos
iting scripture to his congregation, the writer also speaks as a pious child when the occasion demands, such as when commenting on the Fifth Commandment. The boy\rquote 
s perspective on the doctrine of his church is invaluable, especially as a source for understanding the foundations of Ruskin\rquote s mature religious thought.
\par 
\par THE DESIGN OF PART 1,
\par \'93COMPLETE CHRONOLOGY AND SELECTED TEXTS
\par OF RUSKIN\rquote S WRITINGS, 1826\endash 38\'94
\par \tab Much can be learned from the proper ordering of the notebooks\rquote  contents, so long as one remains aware that a given notebook may include several sequences from differing times and that the overall, day-to-day sequence of Ruskin\rquote 
s activities must be reconstructed from his simultaneous use of several notebooks. For these reasons, Cook and Wedderburn were wise to pair Collingwood\rquote s descriptive bibliography of the major manuscripts with the \'93Chronology\'94
 of the individual poems that the manuscripts contain. Accordingly, I have gratefully adopted their fundamental design, by
 pairing a complete chronology of the individual items of juvenilia (part 1) with a descriptive bibliography of the major manuscripts (part 2). I have revised and expanded the chronology beyond a merely enumerative list of poetry titles like Cook and Wedd
erburn\rquote s, to comprise the nearly three hundred items of poetry as well as prose through 1838, each item annotated by a justification of its position in the sequence.
\par \tab  The manuscript notebooks by themselves give a perplexing impression of Ruskin\rquote s activitie
s, since he wrote in a given notebook at many different times, spread in some cases over years, and he worked with more than one notebook simultaneously. One\rquote 
s head reels in leafing through the manuscript notebooks, trying to discern a sequence in Ruskin\rquote s interests and developing literary activity. Notebooks starting with his careful but childish pencil print lettering, used for his \'93Harry and Lucy
\'94 and earliest poems of 1826\endash 28, might also contain ink and pencil script used for drafts of sermons and mineralogical \'93articles\'94
 of a considerably later time. A range of one to eight years is possible for his use of any single notebook. Even wider parameters characterize MSS IA, X, and XI, which are not notebooks already bound when Ruskin first used them but coll
ections of loose manuscripts compiled and bound in later years by Alexander Wedderburn.
\par \tab What is more confusing, the notebooks\rquote  contents are not always sequential. Although Ruskin seems usually to have placed his initial entry in a notebook\rquote s first pages, 
frequently even providing a title page, he at various times copied groups of poems in the middle, and returned years later and drafted new projects starting at the opposite end from, and upside down to, the text at the beginning. The texts coming from opp
osite ends often meet, and in some cases the new text extends over top of the old\emdash 
Ruskin either erasing part of the old text to accommodate the new, or running the new text into whatever marginal spaces were left over. Other available gaps here and there we
re filled at almost any time. In another procedure, causing a conundrum that Dearden successfully unraveled in the 1830 diary (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 TLC}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , 10\endash 
14), Ruskin would leave gaps to fill in later, but, discovering he had allowed insufficient space, he would fill the gap and continue the inserted text elsewhere in the notebook.
\par \tab The task of ordering the notebooks\rquote  contents involves an exacting and elaborate game of cross-referencing. Each poem or prose item takes its place on a conceptual grid, its position fixed by vectors converging from various determinations
\emdash Ruskin\rquote s own dates when available, the item\rquote s placement in a notebook vis-\'e0-vis other datable pieces, references to it in datable family letters, and its source in books the family is known to have bought or read at
 a certain time. With these items fixed, a story gradually emerges of how and when an entire notebook was used, and this story can in turn inform us both about individual items that cannot be dated by any other method and about the simultaneous evolution 
of other notebooks. Fortunately, substantial sections of some notebooks were composed more or less sequentially\emdash 
most importantly, those like MSS II, VI, and VIII, in which Ruskin entered rough drafts of his work and which therefore preserve a successive rec
ord of his compositions. The sequences in the rough-draft notebooks also became convoluted in certain places, however\emdash extremely so, in MS VIII\emdash requiring meticulous interpretation provided in parts 1 and 2.
\par \tab In part 1, each entry begins with an item\rquote s title
, followed by its most precise known date, its manuscript source, publication history, and a note discussing the evidence for dating, compositional history, and sources. Texts follow for those poems and prose works I have chosen to publish.
\par 
\par The Scope of the Chronology
\par \tab The chronology begins with the earliest known compositions\emdash those of 1826, putting aside possibly earlier drawings and \'93signatures\'94 on the flyleaves of books, and Ruskin\rquote s first \'93letter\'94 of 1823.}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 
\chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864 
 See, e.g., the penciled drawings and \'93signatures\'94 in Ruskin\rquote s childhood copies of Maria Edgeworth\rquote s }{\i\insrsid2771864 Frank}{\insrsid2771864  and Aesop\rquote s }{\i\insrsid2771864 Fables}{\insrsid2771864  (described in Viljoen, }{
\i\insrsid2771864 Sharp Collection}{\insrsid2771864 , 6, 7 [items 2, 5b]), and in a book }{\i\insrsid2771864 Little Jack}{\insrsid2771864  (listed in \'93Adams Collection,\'94 317). Ruskin\rquote s first \'93letter,\'94 written by his mother fro
m his dictation on 15 March 1823 and signed by himself in very awkward capital letters, is printed in Collingwood, }{\i\insrsid2771864 Life}{\insrsid2771864 , 18\endash 19?; }{\i\insrsid2771864 Works}{\insrsid2771864  1:xxvi, n. 3; and }{
\i\insrsid2771864 RFL}{\insrsid2771864  127\endash 28. The autograph letter itself is reproduced in Dearden, \'93The Ruskin Galleries at Bembridge School, Isle of Wight,\'94 pl. III.}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 The chronology extends through 1838, thereby encompassing all the individual items contained in the major manuscripts. Items are grouped by year and, insofar as can be determined, arranged chronologically within the year, ac
cording to the earliest known date\emdash that is, the date of an item\rquote s draft, if known, rather than its fair copy or publication.
\par \tab The choice of inclusive dates to frame the chronology, 1826\endash 38, has been governed by the contents of the major manuscript notebook
s. It has proved prudent to extend the chronology from the earliest known compositions through the latest items contained in the major manuscripts, although by 1838 Ruskin had produced work certainly too mature to be regarded as juvenilia, such as }{
\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 The Poetry of Architecture}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  (no. 255). Since Ruskin returned to his early notebooks long after their initial childhood use, appropriating available leaves to draft such comparatively sophisticated pieces as 
\'93Marcolini\'94 (no. 241) and the \'93Essay on the Relative Dignity of the Studies of Painting and Music . . .\'94
 (no. 270), the evidence for dating these later items needs to be in place in part 1, in order to decode the manuscript notebooks comprehensively in part 2. As it has turned out, some work by the emerging critic and prose writer, such as the \'93
Essay on . . . Painting and Music\'94 and the \'93Chronicles of St. Bernard\'94 (no. 216), is as problematic to date as work by the juvenile poet, although Cook and Wedderburn\rquote s (and the elder Ruskin\rquote s) dates for this youthful criti
cism have always been taken for granted.
\par \tab Some works are listed that have been lost altogether, but whose titles and dates remain recoverable, especially from MS VI. These deserve to be listed and annotated for what they can tell us about Ruskin\rquote s interests and compositional habits.

\par 
\par The System of Title Citation
\par \tab All titles in the chronology refer to poems unless a following parenthetical identification specifies prose\emdash poetry forming, by far, the largest portion of the early writing. Prose and poem titles placed in quotation marks are Ruskin\rquote 
s. Untitled poems are cited by their first lines, also in quotation marks, first lines being distinguishable from titles by conventions of capitalization.
\par \tab In his own titles, Ruskin adhered to conventions of capitalization irregularly, so many of his titles would read, if transcribed exactly, like first-line citations. Thus, to distinguish between Ruskin\rquote 
s titles and my first-line citations for untitled works, I have found it convenient, for purposes of this chronology, t
o regularize conventions of spelling, capitalization, and punctuation in his titles. If any ambiguity can have resulted from my regularization of titles\emdash 
for example, the questionable placement of apostrophes, which Ruskin frequently omitted, to form singular or plural possessives\emdash I have striven to avoid misleading the reader by discussing the problem in the item\rquote 
s note, often supplying Ruskin\rquote s title in its original form.
\par \tab In some cases, main titles are followed by alternative titles placed in parentheses, and the alternative is discussed in the item\rquote 
s note. Many titles in parentheses are merely first-line citations, added to distinguish between items to which Ruskin assigned the same or similar titles (e.g., \'93A Sermon\'94 or \'93A Psalm\'94), these parenthetical fir
st-line citations again being distinguishable from titles by conventions of capitalization. Other titles in parentheses refer to inventions by earlier editors\emdash 
editorial titles, by which some works have come to be familiarly known and which therefore need to be available to the reader. In such cases, the reader should recognize that Ruskin\rquote 
s own titles or first-line citations would be far preferable. Collingwood cherished a regrettable affection for sentimental titles, which at the very least can embarrass the actual tone of the work. For example, the prettiness of his title \'93
Moonlight on the Mountains\'94 for the originally untitled no. 147 proves to have been justified only by the editor\rquote s deletion of the draft\rquote s closing stanzas, which depict \'93a gloomy thing\'94 
that reverses the serene tone of the opening stanzas printed by Collingwood. Since such decisions belong to the late-century formation of the myth of Ruskin\rquote 
s childhood, the editors of the Library Edition were not always careful to indicate where titles are editorial. Cook and Wedderburn generally enclosed Collingwood\rquote s editorial titles in brackets, but their practice is inconsistent.
\par \tab When I have been forced myself to invent an editorial title for prose and poetry, I distinguish it from other kinds of titles by the omission of quotation marks. These titles are descriptive. Where possible, they are drawn from Ruskin\rquote 
s own habitual way of referring to an item in his letters, although no title can be found inscribed on the manuscript itself, such as his Mineralogical Dictionary (no. 98). Descriptive titles prove necessary where first-line citation is impractical
\emdash for example, in cases where untitled long poems consist of multiple parts, each with its own title, such as the Account of a Tour on the Continent (no.
 180); or in cases where the texts of poems have been all but obliterated, such as the Satirical Poem on Mr. Rowbotham (no. 145), so that no first-line citation is possible.
\par 
\par The System of Date Citation
\par \tab Dates were assigned to many pieces by Ruskin himself and occasionally by his parents. (Notice is taken of dates in other, clearly later hands\emdash probably Wedderburn\rquote s or Collingwood\rquote s\emdash 
where the researcher is liable to be distracted by such docketings.) In some cases, Ruskin\rquote s own dates obviously specify, not w
hen he wrote a poem, but when he fair-copied the piece for presentation or when he made the presentation itself. Hence, a New Year\rquote s poem dated by Ruskin \'93January 1, 1828\'94
 may be placed at the head of the chronology for 1828, because that is the best date we have, but it should be regarded as having almost certainly been drafted in late 1827.
\par \tab In a few cases, dates were assigned by Ruskin that provide no clue\emdash that, in fact, are almost certainly and even deliberately misleading\emdash concerning the original compositional dates of the pieces in question. This is the case with Ruskin
\rquote s spate of fair-copying poems in MS III, all of which he dated 9 March 1829. Any such ambiguity is discussed in the note to a given entry.
\par \tab The compositional date is given and the piece 
is ordered according to that date only when a datable rough draft or some other hard evidence about its composition is available. Where only the fair copy remains, one may often assume only a few months, at most, to have elapsed between beginning composit
ion and fair-copying. Parts of some longer poems such as \'93Eudosia\'94 appear, in fact, to have been fair-copied almost as soon as Ruskin drafted them. Such assumptions are not uniformly safe, however.
\par \tab The composition of some large projects extended so long beyond the starting date assigned to their entries that, in part 1, cross-references are provided at the beginning of subsequent years, alerting the reader to carry forward those entries.
\par 
\par Publication Information
\par \tab A great many of Ruskin\rquote s early works must be designated as previously unpublished. For those that have been published, readers are urged to attend to my cautions in this introduction concerning earlier editors\rquote 
 heavy-handed interventions in Ruskin\rquote s texts.
\par \tab Publications are cited in their order of appearance, starting with those in Ruskin\rquote s lifetime, if any, such as poems in gift annuals or in the 1850 }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Poems}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  by \'93J.R.\'94
 I do not cite press notices of the annuals, some of which liberally quoted from Ruskin\rquote s poems.}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864  For the press notices, see }{\i\insrsid2771864 Works}{
\insrsid2771864  38:130; Jean Halladay, \'93Some Errors in the Bibliography of the Library Edition of John Ruskin\rquote s Works,\'94 }{\i\insrsid2771864 Papers of the Bibliographical Society of America}{\insrsid2771864  62 (1968): 127\endash 
29; and K. I. Ali, \'93Some Notes on the Bibliography of John Ruskin,\'94 }{\i\insrsid2771864 Papers of the Bibliographical Society of America}{\insrsid2771864  73 (1979): 257\endash 60.}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 My lists continue with the major subsequent editions\emdash Collingwood\rquote s edition of the poetry (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 PJR}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 ) and the Library Edition (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Works}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
). Pagination differs somewhat in the editions of }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 PJR}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 \emdash the large edition, which features reproductions of Ruskin\rquote 
s drawings and manuscripts, and the more commonly available small edition, which omits the plates and replaces the facsimiles of manuscripts with transcriptions in the notes. For researchers\rquote  convenience, I c
ite separately the large, quarto edition as \'93}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 PJR}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  (4}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 o}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 )\'94 and the small, octavo edition as \'93}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 PJR}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  (8}{
\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 o}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 ),\'94 where paginations differ; and I cite them together as \'93}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 PJR}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  (4}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 o}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , 8}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 
o}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 ),\'94 where paginations match. (See List of Abbreviations.)
\par \tab The major early Ruskin bibliographies, such as those by Axon and by Smart and Wise, are also cited, when these quoted liberally from the poems. 
\par \tab Only quotations from previously unpublished works are cited from Collingwood\rquote s }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Life}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  of Ruskin, ignoring quotations in the }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Life}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 from works that the editor had already printed in his }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 PJR}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 . The same policy holds for Cook, }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Life}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 . Collingwood\rquote s }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Life}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864  was first published in 1893, but extensively rewritten in 1900, so it is necessary to cite both editions. Moreover, as with }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 PJR}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
, pagination varies even among different editions of both the 1893 and the 1900 versions. For the 1893 version I cite large (1893a) and small (1893b) editions, and for the 1900 version I cite [information to come]. (See List of Abbreviations.)
\par \tab Other earlier editions, such as James Osborne Wright\rquote s 1882 and 1884 American publications of }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Poems by John Ruskin}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , are cited as an indication of the availability of Ruskin\rquote 
s early writings prior or in addition to the major editions, }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 PJR}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  and }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Works}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 . Most of these collections of Ruskin\rquote 
s poems published toward the end of the nineteenth and beginning of the twentieth centuries, such as those edited by J. R. Tutin and by G. K. Chesterton, contain the same poems in the same order, and probably pirated from one another.
 Omitted are reprintings of Ruskin\rquote s poems in later anthologies, which rely on the pioneering editions for their texts.
\par \tab In more recent times, brief quotations from unpublished works have occasionally appeared in critical and biographical studies that draw on archival research, such as Emerson\rquote s }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RGI}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , Finley\rquote 
s }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 NC}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , and Hunt\rquote s }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 WS}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
, and these are documented. Of course, acknowledgment is also given for the recent and textually more accurate editions of the early writings, those edited by Van Akin Burd and James D
earden. I have made extensive efforts to capture any first publication or quotation of a work, and I apologize in advance for oversights.
\par 
\par Editorial Notes on the Chronology Entries
\par \tab My aim has been to establish a comprehensive and accurate chronology; acco
rdingly, the information supplied in the notes to the entries is mainly devoted to justifying the dating of each item and, especially for the longer works, to discussing sources and compositional history. Researchers should still consult }{
\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 PJR}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Works}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RFL}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 TLC}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
, and other editions for textual and explanatory notes.
\par \tab Besides the obviously necessary revisions in earlier editors\rquote  erroneous datings, this edition attempts a precision that Collingwood might have considered pointless or even pernicious under the ban of \'93instructions which have been given him.
\'94 My chronology makes available, as near as possible, the day-by-day plotting of Ruskin\rquote s composing process, including all known minor works, finished or unfinished, and the detailed compositional histories of lon
ger works, finished or unfinished. For example, it is revealing to learn what we can about the production of the frequently quoted, so-called Account of a Tour on the Continent (no. 180)\emdash 
to learn about the order in which Ruskin drafted its various sections
, about what he planned to draft but never executed, about the order in which he fair-copied and illustrated the sections, and about the point at which he abandoned fair-copying. Whatever conclusions critics choose to draw from such a reconstruction, its 
effects on interpretation ought to differ considerably from the misleading impression of polished arrangement that has come down to us through the Library Edition printing of the Account. Who has noticed, since the Library Edition and }{
\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 PJR}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  fail to inform us, that even the title is not Ruskin\rquote s, but a paraphrase of a remark of Ruskin\rquote s }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 about}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  the manuscript in }{
\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Praeterita}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 ? This is only a minor correction from manuscript evidence of considerable interest, including previously unpublished poetry for the Account.
\par \tab Detailed compositional histories become especially useful when compared against the family history available in }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RFL}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
. My correcting the accepted date of a poem by a few months, or even by a year, may at first seem of little consequence to manuscripts that, 
in any event, are juvenile productions; however, the consequences can prove revolutionary when the revised dates and sequence of Ruskin\rquote 
s early literary works are correctly dovetailed with the sequence of the family letters. Thereby, the process of Ruskin\rquote 
s early writing can be seen in terms of an ongoing response to his parents and teachers and of their responses to him. Thus, revised and precise chronology opens up the socio- and psychodynamics of writing in this remarkable Victorian family, to an extent
 never previously available. One important phenomenon already mentioned, Ruskin\rquote s angry response to Margaret\rquote s efforts to \'93stop his rhyming,\'94
 has previously been obscured by the erroneous dates and textual omissions in the older editions.
\par \tab Of course, significant portions of Collingwood\rquote s, Cook and Wedderburn\rquote s, and Viljoen\rquote 
s work are correct (and, in a few cases of subsequently lost or destroyed items, the only evidence we have). What is reliable in their work has been fully incorporated into mine\emdash and, I hope, adequately and gratefully acknowledged\emdash 
relieving the reader of having to juggle multiple bibliographies and chronologies.
\par \tab Where possible, the editorial notes identify Ruskin\rquote s sources, which often help confirm the dating. The interest in Ruskin\rquote s early literary influences\emdash a topic that initially drew editors and biographers to the juvenilia\emdash 
is refreshed by the unpublished work. \'93Athens\'94 presents the earliest }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 direct}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  evidence of Ruskin\rquote s interest in Wordsworth\rquote s narrative poetry, such as }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 The Excursion}
{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , an influence that critics have attached to \'93Iteriad\'94 by inference alone. Byron proves the overwhelming influence on the earlier poetry, including Ruskin\rquote s unexpected engagement with }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Manfred}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864  in a series of songs and fragments (nos. 123\endash 27, 134a). The known Byronic influences\emdash }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Childe Harold\rquote s Pilgrimage}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  and }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Don Juan}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864 , for example\emdash emerge more prominently than ever.
\par \tab Sources for }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 The King of the Golden River}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  are usually identified in Ruskin\rquote s early reading, especially Grimm\rquote s fairy tales\emdash or, in the form he read them, the }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 
German Popular Stories}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  of 1823, illustrated by Cruikshank. The unpublished poetry shows not only }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 that}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  he read those tales but also }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 how}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 he read them. Critics have identified major Ruskinian themes in his copies and versifications of Cruikshank\rquote s illustrations, the partially published \'93Puppet Show\'94
 (no. 35). The verses accompanying these drawings are often very slight; other unpublished poems, such as \'93Life\'94 (no. 116), extend Ruskin\rquote s fascination with the tales themselves. In numerous narrative fragments, \'93kelpies,\'94 \'93brownies,
\'94 \'93water spirits,\'94 and the like, stalk the verse. In these, Ruskin adapts Grimm to his own interests, usually sacrificing an incipient narrative to description and mood setting, which become the poem\rquote s objective. These gothic poems a
lso point to Ruskin\rquote s knowledge of Scottish folklore.
\par \tab Scott, of course, is a constant presence. Battle scenes from the Waverley novels provide a frequent source of topics. Scholars also need full access to Ruskin\rquote s imaginative engagement with the White Lady of }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 
The Monastery}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  or the Maiden of the Mist in }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Anne of Geierstein}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 . Although these nebulous and ambiguously threatening yet guiding female figures would haunt Ruskin\rquote 
s imagination throughout his life, the poems containing them have previously been published, if at all, only as brief quotations (e.g., no. 46).
\par \tab Besides the influence of major writers, the unpublished Ruskin also reflects minor poets and fiction writers, not to mention obscure natural science magazine articles, geology primers, travel narrati
ves, sensational tales in gift annuals, and the like. Occasionally, I have been able to dig up a forgotten source, such as the Reverend George Croly\rquote s }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Tales of the Great St. Bernard}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
, which gave Ruskin his idea for the \'93Chronicles of St. Bernard\'94 (no. 216). A great help to me in identifying scientific sources has been Viljoen\rquote s unpublished papers on the juvenilia.
\par 
\par The Selection and Transcription of Texts
\par \tab If revisionary criticism can be grounded in a fresh view of works as familiar (in edited form) as the Account of a Tour on the Continent, or in a more detailed compositional history of \'93Iteriad,\'94
 much more remains to be learned from works that Collingwood apparently deemed unpresentable because too fragmentary. My objective has been to publish all of Ruskin\rquote 
s previously unpublished poems or poem fragments; poems that have previously appeared only in brief quotation, such as \'93The Monastery\'94
; and significant unpublished prose. As remarked at the start of this introduction, this edition cannot print all of the unpublished early Ruskin. Perhaps I am prejudiced in favor of humanistic content, but I believe that Ruskin\rquote 
s early sermons, for example, have earned pride of place, having supported important arguments by Viljoen (\'93Ruskin\rquote s Testament\'94), Landow (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 ACTJR}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 ), and Finley (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 NC}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864 ), all of whom studied the sermons in manuscript, whereas Ruskin\rquote 
s mineral lists and discussions are less likely to reward the expense of publication. Ruskin himself, both in the 1830s and in later life, might well have disagreed with my priorities, and I do publish some of the more interesting mineralogical \'93
articles.\'94 In any case, for scholars who possess the requisite learning to discover gold where I can see only dull ore, I provide full descriptions, datings, and compositional histories of the mineral work, such as MSS IVC and IVD, and nos. 86, 98
\endash 99 and 118b, discussions that I trust will prove serviceable in the archives.
\par \tab This edition also on occasion republishes writing that was so invasively edited by Collingwood, Cook, and Wedderburn t
hat the original texts remain unavailable in any acceptably scholarly sense. Here, too, principles of selection necessarily soften into judgment calls. In general, I have judged whether the elaboration of textual notes alone would fail to convey the sense
 of the original, without excessive labor on the reader\rquote s part. It is clearer, for example, to print Ruskin\rquote s rough-draft and fair-copy versions of his poem on Skiddaw and Lake Derwent, along with the }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Spiritual Times
}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  versions, than to attempt to describe ho
w the previous editors altered those texts (no. 44). In some cases, however, a mere list of variants between manuscript and published versions does prove adequate, with no need to republish the work as a whole. Neither of these measures is necessary in re
spect to texts that have been published in later, more reliable texts, such as the poems in }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RFL}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  or the 1830 diary in }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 TLC}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 .
\par \tab Where possible, I have resorted to summary textual remarks, such as \'93Ruskin\rquote s version almost entirely unpunctuated\'94\emdash i.e, as compared to the dense editorial punctuation given in }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 PJR}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 and }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Works}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
. Summary remarks might leave the reader unable to determine whether a comma here or there belongs to editor or author. One wishes, of course, that Collingwood and the editors of the Library Edition had left Ruskin\rquote 
s texts more to their own devices, obviating my need to weigh the value of summarizing editorial changes or listing them in detail. Since they did not, I have been forced to balance the costs of the reader\rquote s patience and my own labor against
 the probable rewards of minutiae. I have continually reminded myself, however, that the early editors no doubt believed their procedures were reasonable, since it was not \'93worth while to treat these early verses with more importance than they possess,
\'94 and that they were spectacularly wrong. I have erred, therefore, on the side of thoroughness.
\par \tab Ruskin\rquote s own variants between rough- and fair-copy versions are, of course, another matter, and I have listed these with care, resorting to summary textual remarks only when I can do so with clarity and accuracy.
\par \tab In cases of very long early works, such as \'93Iteriad\'94 (no. 91) or the 1835 diary (no. 202), I have been forced to scale back my ambitions. For his informative and delightful 1969 edition of \'93Iteriad,\'94 Dearden relied on Cook and Wedderburn
\rquote s full transcript of the poem prepared for the selections published in }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Works}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
, and, therefore, he followed their interventions in punctuation and capitalization. In my own previous scholarship, I have preferred to quote Ruskin\rquote 
s rough copy of the poem in MSS VI and VIII or his fair copy in MSS V and VII; however, I have not found sufficient cause to justify listing variants between the manuscript and published versions for 4,000 lines of verse! For such longer works, it is pr
actical to supply only such details about compositional history as will guide researchers through these manuscripts in the archives.
\par \tab  In transcription of text, Burd recommends that editors faithfully reproduce Ruskin\rquote s punctuation, since one can detect the pulse of thought in his handwriting.}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864  Van Akin Burd, ed., The Winnington Letters: John Ruskin
\rquote s Correspondence with Margaret Alexis Bell and the Children at Winnington Hall (Cambridge, Mass.: Belknap Press of Harvard University Press, 1969), 84\endash 88.}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  This holds true for the }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 lack}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864  of punctuation in the early poems, which, Emerson remarks, opens up how Ruskin \'93bound his phrases each to each\'94 and allowed \'93their movement [to jam] back and forth in the mind\'94 (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RGI}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864  27). Open punctuation, which characterizes both the fair-copy and rough-draft writing, can be reproduced, but the studious lettering and fancy script governing the fair copies can be studied only in the original.
\par \tab Rough drafts present the usual problems of transcription. Conjectural readings are rep
resented in square brackets and with a query mark: for example, W[ho(?)]. When I cannot make out a word at all, I supply simply the query [(?)]. Words that Ruskin crossed out are enclosed in angle brackets: for example, <through>. Double angle brackets <<
 >> indicate letters or words written over by other letters or words, although I have more often found it clearer to write out such explanations in the textual notes. I prefer to let stand, often without comment, Ruskin\rquote s remarkably rare misspell\-
ings and grammatical errors, supplying [}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 sic}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 ] only when the problem might appear to be my error. One error I do consistently and silently correct is Ruskin\rquote 
s doubled letters arising from dividing a word between lines, and doubled words occurring before and after page breaks. Except where noted otherwise, I retain Ruskin\rquote s capitalizations, ampersands, and spaces in words like }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 
to day}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 every day}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , and }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 every one}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
. Omitted letters usually are meant to serve poetic meter, both in rough and fair copy; however, when a missing letter is clearly an error, as in the prose works, I supply it in braces \{ \}.
\par \tab The prose works, such as \'93Harry and Lucy\'94 and the sermons, present special problems in their accidental features, precisely because the fair copies are on such good behavior. I omit mention of Ruskin\rquote 
s confusing end-line word divisions, since they were evidently determined by the scrupulous justifi\-cation and by how much of a word happened to fit at the end of a line, with or without a hyphen. For the same reason, I ignore dots and fancy flour\-
ishes used to fill out and justify lines with the margin (unless, as in some cases, a flourish indicates 
the end of a paragraph) and other marks that serve only decorative or doodling purposes (e.g., a prominent dot raised above the line in the middle of a sentence where one would expect to find no punctua\-
tion, or stray horizontal lines that seem have occupied the writer in moments of abstraction). Where Ruskin omitted ending punctuation, I follow suit and supply extra space, as does Burd in }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RFL}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
. I do indent paragraphs, although\emdash whether to give the appearance of a solid block of text, or merely to save paper\emdash 
Ruskin often indents only slightly or inserts a narrow extra line space at the end of a paragraph and brings the next one flush.
\par \tab A frequent oddity, perhaps related to Ruskin\rquote s later idiosyncracy that Burd terms his \'93half-comma,\'94 are periods in the place o
f commas in the middle of sentences. Conversely, commas often stand for periods at the end of sentences. This reversal is not consistent but occurs regularly enough that the modern reader should be made aware of it without having to translate the punctuat
ion. My compro\-
mise is to substitute the customary punctuation in square brackets, so that the reader will understand that [,] means Ruskin used a period and that [.] means he used a comma. I substitute [.] for an ending comma, however, only when that punct
uation is followed by a capital at the beginning of the follow\-ing sentence; if independent clauses are strung together and divided by commas with no capitaliza\-tion, I leave the commas.
\par \tab In years prior to using the period and comma reversal, Ruskin evidently has trouble writing commas on the baseline, and they float like apostrophes and quotation marks. These marks are regularly interpreted as commas.
\par \tab In the earliest writing, Ruskin appears to have developed some  punctuation peculiar to himself\emdash as obscure, in some instances, as his later mineralogical code symbols. In the first \'93Harry and Lucy\'94
 (no. 3), Ruskin ends sentences with a mark that might be a question mark or might be an exclamation point, and that seems to serve both of those functions. I have interpreted this mark similarly to my treatment of Ruskin\rquote 
s comma and period reversal, using [?] for the mark when the sense calls for a question, and [!] for the mark in other cases.
\par \tab As another system of his own in the earlier writing, especially in no. 
3, Ruskin added closing quotation marks only to the ends of paragraphs, never paired with opening quotation marks. Not all the paragraphs with closing quotation marks are dialogue, and not all dialogue paragraphs have quotation marks. I suspect either tha
t Ruskin misunderstood the symbol as indicating the end of a paragraph, or that he just liked the mark\rquote 
s appearance. In either case, the mark would be best omitted altogether in transcription; however, I have retained it, since another reader might make better sense of it.
\par \tab Still more bizarre is Ruskin\rquote s doubled period, which he uses in the second \'93Harry and Lucy\'94 (no. 20) and still more frequently in \'93Eudosia\'94
 (no. 27). The mark certainly does not indicate an emphatic stop; the opposite is more likely, a tw
o-point ellipsis suggesting a slight pause, in the way a dash would normally be used. Ruskin may have needed to invent his own sign to function as a dash, since he used dashes and hyphens for another purpose, namely, to fill out and \'93justify\'94
 lines. In nos. 20 and 27, a bracketed dash [\emdash ] is used in place of Ruskin\rquote s double period (..).
\par 
\par THE DESIGN OF PART 2,
\par \'93DESCRIPTIVE BIBLIOGRAPHY
\par OF RUSKIN\rquote S EARLY MANUSCRIPT NOTEBOOKS\'94
\par \tab In part 2, each major manuscript entry begins with its designation by roman numeral
; its location (when appropriate, using the abbreviations listed at the front of this book), along with any specialized cataloging information; and its inclusive dates of composition. These opening identifications are followed by three discursive sections
: (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 a}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 ) provenance; (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 b}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 ) physical description, and discusssion of any special circumstances that affected the manuscript\rquote 
s composition or compilation; and (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 c}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 ) contents, listed in their sequential order (not necessarily the same as the contents\rquote  compositional order, which is accounted for in part 1).
\par 
\par The Roman Numeral Designation of the Major Manuscripts
\par \tab In his \'93Preliminary Note on the Original MSS. of the Poems,\'94 Collingwood assigned roman numerals to the major manuscripts. These no longer quite correctly represent, as he believed, the manuscripts\rquote 
 chronological order. Since these roman numerals have been used by generations of scholars, however, I retain them to avoid confusion.
\par \tab In his \'93Preliminary Note,\'94 Collingwood also omitted manuscripts that contain exclusively prose. For many manuscripts omitted by Collingwood, Cook and Wedderburn in their revision of the \'93Preliminary Note\'94 and, later, Viljoen in her \'93
Dating MSS. of Boyhood\'94 adopted one of Collingwood\rquote s roman numerals and added an arabic letter, thus fitting the manuscript into Collingwood\rquote 
s framework according to a rough chronological order. I have retained these assignations also, again to avoid confusion. Finally, I have invented a few roman numeral designations of my own, to name major manuscripts no
t mentioned in any of the earlier bibliographies. A very rough chronology has thus been preserved, but the reader should never take a manuscript roman numeral as necessarily reflecting its place in the overall chronolog\-
ical scheme of the juvenilia. Only the arabic numerals in part 1 reliably reflect chronology.
\par \tab One manuscript at Yale has come to be known by two names. Collingwood\rquote s MS XI, which he described as \'93an envelope containing collected loose papers, including poems,\'94 was bound in 1889 (and rebound
 in 1924, with additions) to form the volume \'93Ruskin MS., Early Poems and Letters to His Father, 1827, 1844\endash 51, 1859,\'94 the first of the six blue morocco volumes of Ruskin family letters, now held by Yale.}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn 
{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864 
 For the complex binding history of this and the five other blue morocco volumes of letters currently held by Yale, see the \'93Description\'94 of MS XI in part 1, as well as \'93The Provenance of the Major Manuscripts,\'94 }{\i\insrsid2771864 Sotheby
\rquote s 1930,}{\insrsid2771864  below.}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  Collingwood\rquote s designation of MS XI for this collection was retained by
 Cook and Wedderburn, although it had long since been bound by the time of the Library Edition (and had been bound even by the time }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 PJR}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 was released). This first volume of the bound letters, however, has also come to be known familiarly as RMS I (i.e., \'93Ruskin MS.,\'94 vol. 1), the abbreviation used by Van Akin Burd in his edition of the }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RFL}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864 , where much of its contents is published (see }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RFL}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , lviii; Burd\rquote s RMS II is the second volume of the bound letters). For consistency\rquote s sake, I have chosen to use the earlie
r designation, MS XI, for RMS I.
\par 
\par The Provenance of the Major Manuscripts
\par \tab The provenance of most major manuscripts of the juvenilia is accounted for in the two Sotheby\rquote s sales of Ruskin manuscripts removed from Brantwood, held on 24 July 1930 and 18 May 1
931. Most remaining early manuscripts were probably sold during the final dispersal sale at Brantwood itself on 28, 30, and 31 July 1931. Other juvenile manuscripts took a more shadowy course to their present locations, both before and after the Sotheby
\rquote s 
and Brantwood estate sales. Since the provenances of most major manuscripts are interrelated, the main stories are told here; and, in part 2, the provenances of individual manuscripts are keyed to the following discussion by the shorthand terms, }{
\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Sotheby\rquote s 1930, Sotheby\rquote s 1931, Viljoen, Sharp,}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  and }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Huntington}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
. Some particular manuscripts require further, specific details to explain their provenance, and these are relegated to their respective entries in part 2.
\par \tab }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Sotheby\rquote s 1930.}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 \emdash The 24 July 1930 sale at Sotheby\rquote s included several manuscripts of juvenilia as lot 112, items I\endash 
VI, each item contained in a blue-morocco covered slipcase. This lot ended up at the Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library of Yale University, where the manuscripts remain in their origi
nal slipcases. At the same sale, Yale acquired lot 110, six blue morocco volumes of family letters (including MS XI, as remarked above in \'93The Roman Numeral Designation of the Major Manuscripts\'94
). The two lots would have appeared to form a set in their matching blue morocco, as compared with the red buckram coverings that characterize bindings of other early manuscripts (see }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Sotheby\rquote s 1931}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 below).
\par \tab The slipcases included in Sotheby\rquote s lot 112 and their contents follow. The titles enclosed in quotation marks are stamped in gilt on the spines; the parenthetical identifications are mine.
\par \'93RUSKIN / MS. / *HARRY & LUCY / POEMS / &C*\'94 (MSS I, II, III, IIIA, and IV).
\par \'93RUSKIN / MS. / JUVENILIA\'94 (MSS IVA, IVB, and IVC).
\par \'93RUSKIN / MS. / POEMS / 1829\endash 32 / 1902\'94 (MS V).
\par \'93RUSKIN / MS. / ITERIAD / &}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 c}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  / 1902\'94 (MS VII).
\par \'93RUSKIN / MS. / POEMS / ETC. / 1831\endash 38.\'94 (MS VIII).
\par \'93RUSKIN / MS. / POEMS / 1833.\'94 (MS IX).
\par \tab In Collingwood\rquote s time, forty years prior to the Sotheby\rquote s sale, two of these, MSS VII and IX, were listed as \'93in the possession of Mrs. Arthur Severn\'94 (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 PJR}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
, 1:265, 266). Joan Severn also owned MS X (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 PJR}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
, 1:267), which included the 1830 diary (MS XA), and which remained unbound until about 1901, when MSS X and XA were separately bound in red buckram (for their provenances, see }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Sotheby\rquote s 1931}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  and }{
\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Sharp,}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  below). It can readily be seen that Ruskin set aside the major tour poems for Joan, since MS VII contains \'93Iteriad,\'94 MS XA the 1830 diary\emdash 
both of these describing the summer 1830 tour to the Lakes\emdash and MSS IX and X the long poems describing the continental tours of 1833 and 1835. Joan must have possessed these since 1885, when Ruskin declared in }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Praeterita}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864  that he left \'93the unfinished folly [of MS IX] in Joanie\rquote s care, that none but friends may see it\'94 (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Works}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , 35:81). (
For another manuscript acquired later by Joan Severn, see part 2, MS IB, \'93Provenance.\'94)
\par \tab The blue morrocco bindings and slipcases and the arrangement of their contents were probably decided by Alexander Wedderburn, although one of the volumes of bound letters\emdash one containing later letters, not MS XI\emdash 
contains a notation raising the possibility that Ruskin himself had a hand in its arrangement (see part 2, MS XI, \'93Provenance\'94 and \'93Description\'94). The choice of binding materials perhaps bears reference to the so-called \'93Ruskin calf,\'94
 the \'93purple calf, with gilt edges, tooled after an ecclesiastical fashion\'94 that was used for the \'93Collected Works\'94 edition, beginning in 1871 (Wise, 1:119), but this is my speculation. The volumes of letters were first bound in 1889 
(for subsequent complications in their binding history, see part 2, MS XI, \'93Description\'94). Since the 1889 binding altered Collingwood\rquote s description of MS XI (see }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Works}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
, 2:534), Collingwood must have compiled his \'93Notes on the Original MSS. of the Poems\'94 for }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 PJR}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  well before its publication in 1891.
\par \tab The slipcases containing the Red Books and notebooks do not bear dates for their construction. It seems likely that Wedderburn would have finished these arrangements, at least by the time Collingwood\rquote s bibliographic \'93Note\'94
 was revised and expanded for the second volume of }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Works}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 (1903). In fact, it seems likely that the blue morrocco slipcases were constructed much earlier, around 1889, along with the similar bindings for the letters, since Wedderburn is known to h
ave used red buckram later, around the turn of the century (see, e.g., MS XA). At the very latest, the slipcases were finished by 1912, when the bibliography volume of }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Works}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  identifies as \'93Juvenilia\'94
 the three Red Books that can still be found in the slipcase of that name (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Works}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , 38:206).
\par \tab While there is no difficulty matching lots 110 and 112 as described in Sotheby }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Cat}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 . 1930 with the manuscripts presently at Yale, conflicting clues obscure the manuscripts\rquote 
 journey between London and New Haven. Lot 112, according to Charles Beecher Hogan, was \'93purchased by Mr. Charles Goodspeed,\'94 the Boston book dealer, \'93and in turn purchased by Yale.\'94 The volumes of letters, lot 110, Hogan goes on to remark, 
\'93were purchased by Yale at the Sotheby auction of July 24, 1930.\'94}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864  Charles Beecher Hogan, \'93The Yale Collection of the Manuscripts of John Ruskin,\'94 }{\i\insrsid2771864 YULG}{\insrsid2771864 
 16, no. 4 (April 1942): 62, 63.}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  The latter comment suggests that Yale 
did not go through Goodspeed for the letters as they did for the juvenilia. Curiously, in his memoirs, while Goodspeed acknowledges acquiring the manuscripts of }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 The King of the Golden River}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , }{
\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Praeterita}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , and a portion of }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Fors Clavigera}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  at the 1930 auction, he fails to mention the juvenilia. \'93}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Praeterita}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864  I kept myself,\'94 from this sale; \'93the others I sold,\'94 he summarizes (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 YB}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  267). If Hogan is correct, the \'93others\'94 must have included lot 112 of the juvenilia, as well.}{
\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864 
 The }{\i\insrsid2771864 King}{\insrsid2771864  and }{\i\insrsid2771864 Fors}{\insrsid2771864  manuscripts were sold to Yale [information to come]. Goodspeed\rquote s }{\i\insrsid2771864 Praeterita}{\insrsid2771864 
 manuscript came to Yale later, after the dealer\rquote s house fire (see Hogan, 69), and the library later acquired additional portions of the autobiography\rquote s manuscript (see }{\i\insrsid2771864 YULG}{\insrsid2771864 
 34, no. 4 [April 1960]: 187, and }{\i\insrsid2771864 YULG}{\insrsid2771864  35, no. 2 [October 1960]: 98).}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
\par \tab Goodspeed may not have attended the sale himself, since, according to a handwritten notation in the copy of Sotheby }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Cat}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 . 1930 at Yale, the sale of lot 112 (the juvenilia) was awarded to \'93Allen\'94
 for \'a3260, and of lot 110 (the letters) to the same person for \'a3520 (pp. 18, 20). \'93Allen,\'94 as James Dearden has suggested to me, was probably Hugh Allen, a son of Ruskin\rquote s publisher George Allen. Hugh Allen\rquote 
s part in these sales can be gathered from a letter to J. H. Whitehouse, the collector, from Whitehouse\rquote s agent, Ralph Brown, on the occasion of a later sale at Arthur Severn\rquote s London home (15\endash 16 July 1931, 9 Warwick Square): \'93
we are having the benefit of the assistance of our friend Mr Hugh Allen, and his help has been invaluable,\'94 as compared with \'93the lack of interest shown by the Severn family in all matters pertaining to Ruskin\'94 (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RBB}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864 , 87).
\par \tab If Hogan is correct that Goodspeed took some part in these transactions, his role must have been minimal, in comparison with Allen\rquote s. The earliest report on Yale\rquote 
s acquisitions from the July 1930 sale, published only five months later in January 1931, treats the juvenilia as a single \'93collection\'94 }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 along with}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  the letters, which Allen purchased directly for Yale.}
{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{
\insrsid2771864  Weihe, \'93A Collection of Ruskin Manuscripts.\'94 Weihe fails to report any agent for the purchase. }}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  One wonders, in fact, whether Hogan can be correct about Goodspeed\rquote 
s involvement, for if Allen bid on lot 112 for Goodspeed, why did he not act for the Boston dealer also in acquiring the manuscripts of }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 King}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Fors}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , and }{
\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Praeterita}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 \emdash the manuscripts that Goodspeed acknowledges in }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 YB}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
, and that Hogan lists as coming to Yale through Goodspeed and Sotheby (pp. 65, 68)? These, rather, were knocked down to \'93Stevens B. F.\'94 (Sotheby }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Cat}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 . 1930, annotated copy at Yale, pp. 21, 24, 25).}{
\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864 
 Besides }{\i\insrsid2771864 King}{\insrsid2771864 , }{\i\insrsid2771864 Fors}{\insrsid2771864 , and }{\i\insrsid2771864 Praeterita}{\insrsid2771864 
, three other lots went to B. F. Stevens, which contain items that Hogan lists as also coming to Yale through Goodspeed and Sotheby\emdash a notebook for }{\i\insrsid2771864 Stones of Venice}{\insrsid2771864  (lot 116); draft and studies for the }{
\i\insrsid2771864 Lectures on Art}{\insrsid2771864  of 1870 (lot 116), }{\i\insrsid2771864 Val d\rquote Arno}{\insrsid2771864  (lot 116), and }{\i\insrsid2771864 Proserpina}{\insrsid2771864 
 (lot 117); and nine of the miscellaneous notebooks that formed lot 122 (Hogan, 64, 66\endash 68; Sotheby }{\i\insrsid2771864 Cat}{\insrsid2771864 . 1930, annotated copy at Yale, 22, 24, 25\endash 26).
\par }}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 \tab Somewhat confusingly, Hogan (67, n. 4) says that the }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Proserpina}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  manuscript and studies \'93were sold at Sotheby\rquote 
s on May 18, 1931, and came to Yale by purchase from Mr. Goodspeed.\'94 To be more precise, the }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Proserpina}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  studies and }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 part}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 of the manuscript were sold as lot 117 in 1930 (Sotheby }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Cat}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 . 1930, 24), and the remainder of the }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Proserpina}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 manuscript was sold to Goodspeed as part of lot 29 in 1931 (Sotheby }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Cat}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 . 1931, 7); apparently, the two lots combined went to Yale. This is B. F. Stevens, Ralph Brown\rquote 
s firm. It is quite possible that B. F. Stevens was able to represent Goodspeed at the sale, and not the firm\rquote s rival customer Whitehouse, since Whitehouse himself attended and bid in his own name (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RBB}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864  49; Sotheby }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Cat}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 . 1930, annotated copy at Yale, e.g., 19, 22, 24).}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864 
 The firm of B. F. Stevens was able to serve the interests of both its rival customers, Goodspeed and Whitehouse\emdash and, most important, to serve in the best interests of Ruskin scholarship. In the letter from Ralph Brown to Whitehouse cited earl
ier, Brown promises to \'93serve you both to mutual advantage.\'94
 The knowledgable Allen was employed by the firm in ways that must have offset some of the grosser incompetency in these final sales of the estate; for example, regarding the upcoming dispersal sa
le at Brantwood, Brown plotted to send Allen to Coniston in order to gain a private inspection of goods, which were otherwise scantily described (}{\i\insrsid2771864 RBB}{\insrsid2771864 , 88).}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 To all appearances, however, Hugh Allen acted directly for Yale respecting both lots 110 and 112, and Hogan is mistaken about Goodspeed\rquote s involvement. Without further documentation, the question must remain open.
\par \tab Another item in the 1930 sale that falls within the scope of this edition is Ruskin\rquote s 1835 diary, which formed part of lot 111, and which was acquired by Whitehouse. Dearden has sorted out the complicated identification of the diaries in }{
\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RBB}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  (49\endash 50, 103).
\par \tab Throughout this edition, the provenance of all these manuscripts is noted in shorthand as }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Sotheby\rquote s 1930.}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
\par \tab }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Sotheby\rquote s 1931.}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 \emdash Much clearer documentation traces juvenilia included in lot 27 of the second Sotheby\rquote 
s sale, 18 May 1931. Item I of lot 27 is MS VI; item II is MS IA; item III is MS X; item IV is MS XB; and item V is MS IVD (Sotheby }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Cat}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 . 1931, 6). (A significant item formerly in MS X, the
 1830 diary, had been separated prior to the sale. See }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 TLC}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , 4; }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RBB}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , 49; and }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Sharp}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 below.) In his memoirs, Goodspeed mentions purchasing the items in this lot (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 YB}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  267\endash 68), and he later issued an undated catalog of Goodspeed\rquote s Book Shop listing the entirety of lot 27 as \'93
manuscripts 1825\endash 1840\'94 (Goodspeed, }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Cat.}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , items 79\endash 83, pp. 18\endash 22).}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864  Also offered in Goodspeed\rquote 
s catalog are two other items that had formed the remainder of lot 27, although they are not juvenilia: the manuscript }{\i\insrsid2771864 Essay on Baptism}{\insrsid2771864 , and proof sheets of Lindsay\rquote s }{\i\insrsid2771864 
Sketches of the History of Christian Art}{\insrsid2771864 . The former was sold to Princeton (see n. 34 below); and the latter, damaged in Goodspeed\rquote s fire, went to Yale (}{\i\insrsid2771864 YULG}{\insrsid2771864 
 17, no. 3 [January 1943]: 59; see also part 2, MS IA, \'93Description\'94).}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  Goodspeed was a major bidder at the 18 May sale, buying not just \'93one or two more manuscripts\'94 (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RBB}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
, 138) but at the very least lots 27\endash 29 and 31, with each of these lots comprising numerous and varied manuscripts.
\par \tab Three of the early manuscripts that came into Goodspeed\rquote s possession (MSS IVD, VI, XB) were sold in 1939 to the Princeton University Library, along with several other items that he had acquired at the 1931 sale\emdash 
a quite ambitious purchase by the library.}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\insrsid2771864 \chftn  Willard Thorp, \'93The Ruskin Manuscripts,\'94 }{\i\insrsid2771864 Princeton University Library Chronicle}{\insrsid2771864  1, no. 2 (February 1940): 1\endash 
10. The manuscripts sold to Princeton that were not juvenilia had formed parts of lots 28 and 29 at the 1931 sale (Sotheby }{\i\insrsid2771864 Cat}{\insrsid2771864 . 1931, 7; the other manuscripts in lots 28\endash 29\emdash as well as lot 31, boug
ht by Goodspeed\emdash that were not sold to Princeton, can also be identified in Goodspeed, }{\i\insrsid2771864 Cat}{\insrsid2771864 .): a letter to Prout and manuscript for }{\i\insrsid2771864 Notes on Prout and Hunt}{\insrsid2771864 ; notes on Carlyle
\rquote s }{\i\insrsid2771864 Frederick the Great}{\insrsid2771864 ; manuscript of Royal Institution lecture on \'93Verona and Its Rivers\'94; manuscript and proofs of }{\i\insrsid2771864 Mornings in Florence}{\insrsid2771864 ; manuscript and proofs of }{
\i\insrsid2771864 Deucalion}{\insrsid2771864 ; manuscript of }{\i\insrsid2771864 St. Mark\rquote s Rest}{\insrsid2771864 ; manuscript of Oxford lectures on Florentine and Greek art; manuscript and proofs of }{\i\insrsid2771864 A Knight\rquote s Faith}{
\insrsid2771864 ; manuscript and proofs of \'93Valle Crucis\'94 material intended for }{\i\insrsid2771864 Our Fathers Have Told Us}{\insrsid2771864 , but published in }{\i\insrsid2771864 Verona and Other Lectures}{\insrsid2771864 ; proofs of }{
\i\insrsid2771864 Storm Cloud of the Nineteenth Century}{\insrsid2771864 ; manuscript and proofs of }{\i\insrsid2771864 Bible of Amiens}{\insrsid2771864  in }{\i\insrsid2771864 Our Fathers Have Told Us}{\insrsid2771864 
; manuscript of Woolwich lecture on the Halcyon and other notes (Goodspeed, }{\i\insrsid2771864 Cat}{\insrsid2771864 ., items 84, 89\endash 90, 92\endash 93, 96\endash 98, 100\endash 103, respectively).
\par \tab Proofs of }{\i\insrsid2771864 Storm Cloud}{\insrsid2771864  from the 1931 sale are claimed not only by Thorp but also by Hogan, who says that \'93part of the manuscript and some proof\'94 of the lectures \'93were sold at Sotheby\rquote 
s on May 18, 1931, and came to Yale by purchase from Mr. Goodspeed\'94 (67). The Princeton set of proofs is the bound manuscript described in Goodspeed, }{\i\insrsid2771864 Cat}{\insrsid2771864 ., item 101. The Yale [information to come].
\par \tab Also sold to Princeton was the manuscript of the }{\i\insrsid2771864 Essay on Baptism}{\insrsid2771864  (Goodspeed, }{\i\insrsid2771864 Cat}{\insrsid2771864 ., item 86), which Goodspeed acquired as part of lot 27, as already mentioned (n. 31 above).

\par }}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 \tab The final item in Thorp\rquote s description consists of six notebooks, including two containing studies for }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 The Seven Lamps of Architecture}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
. I have not been able to examine these, and they are difficult to trace in the published accounts. I find no such specific listing in Goodspeed, }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Cat}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 ., unless the six were included in item 40, sixteen \'93
Sketch Books\'94 (p. 11); however, only eight of the sixteen were known to have remained to Goodspeed in 1933, when the dealer offered them along with all his Ruskin drawings to Whitehouse, and Whitehouse is believed to have acquired this lot in 1936 (}{
\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RBB}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  138\endash 39). I am also unable to find a listing specifically matching the Princeton notebooks in the Sotheby\rquote s catalogs. They might have formed part of lot 122, \'93Miscellaneous Note Books,\'94
 from the 1930 sale, of which Hogan lists only nine as coming to Yale through Goodspeed (pp. 67\endash 68; and see n. 31, above). The notebooks might also have derived from the 20 May 1931 Sotheby\rquote 
s sale of Ruskin drawings, at which Goodspeed was represented by Ralph Brown (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RBB}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , 138; and see, e.g., Sotheby & Co., }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Catalogue of the Collection of Pictures an
d Drawings, formerly the property of the late Professor John Ruskin . . . }{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
, 20 May 1931, item 9). Prior to the Princeton purchase, Goodspeed had offered all his Ruskin drawings to Whitehouse, who finally agreed to a purchase in 1936 (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RBB}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , 136\endash 39). Although
 the correspondence suggests that Goodspeed sent all the drawings in his possession for Whitehouse\rquote s approval and that Whitehouse retained the entire lot, in 1944 Goodspeed was still able to donate fourteen \'93drawings and paintings\'94
 to Yale, following the dealer\rquote s 1941 fire.}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864  }{\i\insrsid2771864 YULG}{\insrsid2771864  19, no. 2 (October 1944): 34\endash 35.}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
\par \tab A decade after the Sotheby sale, the items remaining from lot 27 that were not sold to Princeton remained in Goodspeed\rquote s house when it caught fire in February 1941 (Hogan, 69). Having rescued man
y books and manuscripts from the catastrophe, Goodspeed began making gifts of Ruskin manuscripts to Yale, starting in March 1941 with the manuscript of }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Praeterita}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
. The items remaining from the 1931 purchase of juvenilia (MSS IA, X) were also fortunately rescued, and these were donated to Yale in 1942 and 1943. The contents of MSS IA and X had been disassembled from Wedderburn\rquote 
s bindings, many individual items had been charred around the edges, and a few may have been destroyed completely.}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864  For the gift of the }{\i\insrsid2771864 Praeterita}{
\insrsid2771864  manuscript, see Hogan, 69; and }{\i\insrsid2771864 YULG}{\insrsid2771864  16, no. 1 (July 1941): 24. For the subsequent gifts, see }{\i\insrsid2771864 YULG}{\insrsid2771864  17, no. 3 (January 1943): 59; }{\i\insrsid2771864 YULG}{
\insrsid2771864  18, no. 2 (October 1943): 36; and }{\i\insrsid2771864 YULG}{\insrsid2771864  19, no. 2 (October 1944): 34\endash 35. From 23 July through 15 September 1948, Yale mounted an exhibition, \'93
John Ruskin: An Exhibition of Certain Early Books and Manuscripts, 1827\endash 65\'94 (}{\i\insrsid2771864 YULG}{\insrsid2771864  23, no. 3 [January 1949]: 157).
\par }}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 \tab These acquisition notices in }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 YULG}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  mention only one other manuscript, the }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Laws of Fiesole}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , of those that Goo
dspeed purchased in 1931 and that have not been otherwise accounted for in the preceding discussion (see also part 2, MS IA, \'93Description\'94). . . . [information to come] The reconstruction of the contents of MSS IA and X, before and after Goodspeed
\rquote s fire, requires detailed discussion, which is provided in part 2.
\par \tab Throughout this edition, the preceding discussion is designated in shorthand as }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Sotheby\rquote s 1931}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 .
\par \tab }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Viljoen.}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 \emdash The provenance of the so-called Sermon Books (MSS IIA\endash E) is not involve
d with the Sotheby sales, whose catalogs do not list the handmade booklets. Their provenance first emerges when the third of the five booklets was deposited in the Ruskin Museum in Coniston, the village across Coniston Lake from Brantwood. Presumably, the
 booklet was donated as part of the village museum\rquote s core collection since the booklet was already there when W. G. Collingwood facsimilied one of its pages in 1903, only two years after the museum\rquote s founding.}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 
\chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864  W. G. Collingwood, }{
\i\insrsid2771864 Ruskin Relics}{\insrsid2771864  (London: Isbister, 1903), facing p. 198; the page is also reproduced in }{\i\insrsid2771864 Works}{\insrsid2771864 , 35:72. See also Dearden, \'93The Ruskin Museum, Coniston,\'94 in }{\i\insrsid2771864 
Facets}{\insrsid2771864 , 144\endash 46.}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  Today, the museum copy has been replaced by a photocopy and the original moved for safekeeping to the Cumbria Record Office in Kendal.
\par \tab The remaining four Sermon Books came into the possession of J. S. Ladd-Thomas, a prominent Methodist churchman and dean of the School of Theology at Temple University, Philadelphia, from 1943 to his retirement in 1958. Ladd-Thomas co
llected manuscripts in religion, many of which he left to the School of Theology Library, an interest that probably attracted him to the Sermon Books.}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864 
 Miriam Crawford to Van Akin Burd, 22 September 1980. Crawford was a curator at Temple University\rquote s Paley Library. I am indebted to Professor Van Akin Burd for a copy of this letter.}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 Welsh by birth, and educated at University College in London, Ladd-Thomas emigrated to America in 1897, but, according to his obituaries, he frequently returned to Europe to se
rve his church in various capacities. On one of these occasions, he must have made the visit to Brantwood that led to his acquisition of the Sermon Books.
\par \tab Remarks by Ladd-Thomas preserved among Helen Viljoen\rquote s papers suggest that he obtained the manuscripts prior to the Sotheby auctions and the following 1931 dispersal sale at Brantwood. The remarks, however, raise more ques\-
tions than they answer since Ladd-Thomas remembered only \'93that these mss. were sent him after he visited Coniston and met someone he describes as one of Ruskin\rquote s neighbors\emdash 
not Mr. Collingwood, though this neighbor lived about a mile down the road. Around 1930, this man sent Dean Thomas this material as a gift. Dean Thomas did not recall his name\'94 (HGVP, file labeled \'93Ruskin\rquote s Sermons as a Boy\'94
). James Dearden has suggested to me that nearby neighbors likely to have had access to Ruskin manuscripts, other than the Collingwoods, might have been the Hilliard family. Mrs. J. C. Hilliard, a sister of Pauline Trevelyan and married to the Rever
end J. C. Hilliard, became a \'93chief comfort\'94 to Ruskin in his later years.}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864  Virginia Surtees, ed., }{\i\insrsid2771864 Reflections of a Friendship: John Ruskin\rquote s Letters to Pauline Trevelyan, 1848\endash 1866}{
\insrsid2771864  (London: George Allen & Unwin, 1979), 263.}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  She was given the penultimate manuscript of }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Modern Painters}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 II, so it seems logical that Ruskin might also have made her a gift of the Sermon Books, which contained the doctrine of his youth supporting that volume. Mrs. Hilliard\rquote s }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Modern Painters}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 manuscripts was inherited by Frederick, the eldest son of the family (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Works}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , 4:361), who also possessed other manuscripts relevant to religious topics or to reminiscence of Ruskin\rquote s childhood\emdash 
portions of }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 St. Mark\rquote s Rest}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Deucalion}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , and }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Fiction, Fair and Foul}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Works}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864 , 24:lviii, 26:xlvii, 34:xxxv).
\par \tab That the four Sermon Books had remained with the Hilliard family would explain why Cook and Wedderburn seem to have been aware of only the one booklet in the Coniston museum (see }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Works}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
, 38:206). Possibly the Hilliards were responsible, too, for donating the one booklet to the Coniston Museum. The problem with this suggestion is that the dates do not chime with Ladd-Thomas\rquote 
s account. Frederick lived with his sister Ethel at Tent Cottage, which does fit the description of a home \'93about a mile down the road\'94 from Brantwood; however, Frederick cannot be the \'93man\'94 of Ladd-Thomas\rquote 
s acquaintance around 1930, since he died in 1913, and, in any case, he and his sister had vacated Tent Lodge in 1908.}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864  Helen Gill Viljoen, ed.
, The Brantwood Diary of John Ruskin, Together with Selected Letters and Sketches of Persons Mentioned (New Haven: Yale University Press, 1971), 589.}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 If the Hilliard family is credible as owners, one must imagine Ladd-Thomas striking an acquaintance earlier than 1930\emdash a bond established on the strength of Ladd-Thomas\rquote s church connections, Hilliard Sr. having been a clergyman\emdash 
and Ladd-Thomas being }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 sent}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  the Sermon Books much later. (Ethel was still alive in 1930, at which time she moved from Ascot to Uxbridge.)}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864 
 Ibid. Of the other Hilliard children, the daughter Connie was the especial favorite of Ruskin, as was Laurence, who served as his secretary. Laurence died suddenly in 1887, long before Ladd-Thomas visited Brantwood. Connie died in 1915 in Reigate, whe
re her husband, the Reverend William Henry Churchill, ran a school (ibid., 590, 587). }}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
\par \tab If the Sermon Books did not come from Hilliards, suspicion points to Myles Wilkinson, the Brantwood factotum who is known to have made unautho\-rized gifts and sales of Ruskin materials (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RBB}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
, 48, 196). But Brantwood Lodge, where Wilkinson presumably lived with his aunt and uncle, cannot by any stretch be described as \'93a mile down the road.\'94 The affair remains mysterious, above all that Ladd-Thomas would have forgotten th
e name of a person, who was on sufficiently familiar terms to make him a present of Ruskin manuscripts.
\par \tab The Sermon Books first gained serious scholarly scrutiny when Ladd-Thomas loaned them to Helen Viljoen, who later acquired them outright as the gift from Ladd-Thomas\rquote s daughter, Mildred Durling, presumably following the dean\rquote 
s death in 1959. When Viljoen received the booklets, they had been docketed as \'93Sermons Written by Ruskin as a Child\'94 and, on an accompanying envelope, as \'93Reports of Sermons, writte
n by John Ruskin as a child. One specimen is in the Coniston Museum.\'94 Ruskin himself did not entitle the Sermon Books.}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864 
 These notations, still remaining on the Morgan manuscripts, Viljoen surmised to be by Alexander Wedderburn, but I have never been certain about the hand. The notations may have been made by the manuscripts\rquote 
 mysterious Coniston owner, or by one of the later people to handle the booklets.}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
\par \tab Recognizing that the Sermon Books represented Ruskin\rquote s first extended, mature religious exer\-cise, Viljoen prepared an edition of the sermons, which she entitled as \'93Ruskin\rquote s }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Sermons on the Pentateuch}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864  and His Religious Life.\'94 The edition was intended to comple\-ment her }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Ruskin\rquote s Scottish Heritage}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , and the two books together would provide a foundation for h
er full-scale biography of Ruskin. She was unable to publish the edition of the }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Sermons}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , however, so it awaited pairing with the biography, which itself never reached completion. On Viljoen\rquote 
s death, the Sermon Books were donated as part of the Sharp Collection to the Pierpont Morgan Library. Her own papers were bequeathed to Van Akin Burd, who published her conclusions about the }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Sermons}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 in an article-length summary account (\'93Ruskin\rquote s Testament\'94). Burd has since passed on all the Viljoen papers to the Morgan Library.
\par \tab The provenance of manuscripts owned by Viljoen (but not originally owned by Sharp) is designated as }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Viljoen}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 .
\par \tab }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Sharp.}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 \emdash The principal local Lake District dealer to profit directly from Brantwood, both before and during the final dispersal sales of 
late July 1931, was T. H. Telford of Grasmere; and the most important collector of the juvenilia to acquire from Telford, as well as from Brantwood directly and from other sources, was F. J. Sharp, a craftsman, teacher, and disciple of Ruskin\rquote 
s socialist theories. Sharp\rquote s career has been described most recently and extensively by Van Akin Burd in an article for the }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Book Collector}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , and the collector\rquote 
s shrewdness and discernment have previously been established by such testimonials as Helen Viljoen\rquote s catalog for her 1965 exhibition of the Sharp Collection at Queens College in New York.}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864  Van Akin Burd, \'93Frederick James Sharp, 1880\endash 
1957,\'94 }{\i\insrsid2771864 Book Collector}{\insrsid2771864  44, no. 4 (Winter 1995): 542\endash 73; and Viljoen, }{\i\insrsid2771864 Sharp Collection}{\insrsid2771864 . Briefer treatments appear in Burd\rquote s introduction to }{\i\insrsid2771864 TLC}
{\insrsid2771864  and his introduction to }{\i\insrsid2771864 Christmas Story: John Ruskin\rquote s Venetian Letters of 1876\endash 1877}{\insrsid2771864  (Newark: University of Delaware Press; London and Toronto: Associated University Press, 1990).}}}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864  In }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RBB}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , Dearden tells the story of Sharp\rquote s quarrel with Whitehouse and of the dispersal of the collection after Sharp\rquote s death (182\endash 86).
\par \tab As remarked earlier (\'93Approaches to Bibliography and Editing of the Early Manuscripts\'94), collecting Ruskin juvenilia seems to have been a peculiarly American preoccupation during the 
earlier decades of the century. The exceptions were Haddon Clifford Adams and, especially, F. J. Sharp.}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864  For Adams\rquote 
s interest in books, drawings, and at least one manuscript (MS IC) related to Ruskin\rquote s childhood, see \'93Adams Collection,\'94 and }{\i\insrsid2771864 RBB}{\insrsid2771864  188\endash 89, 196\endash 201.}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 Sharp was the only English collector to acquire significantly in the early manuscripts and, it is worth noting, the major English collector to work apart from the inner circle of Ruskinians. For Viljoen, Sharp\rquote 
s pride in concentrating on the juvenilia and his \'93recognition of their importance\'94 provided a special \'93token of his insight.\'94}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864 
 Helen Gill Viljoen to Frederick B. Adams, Jr., 18 July 1954, quoted in Burd, \'93Frederick James Sharp,\'94 562.}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
\par \tab Included in Sharp\rquote s large collection were many of Ruskin\rquote s childhood books, drawings, some stray juvenile manuscripts, and, most importantly, MSS IB and XA, and the 1830 diary formerly included in MS X (for this manuscript\rquote 
s former association with Joan Severn, see above, }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Sotheby\rquote s 1930;}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  and part 2, MS IB, \'93Provenance\'94
). Sharp bequeathed his collection of manuscripts to Helen Viljoen, and she was also given books and drawings from the collection. Viljoen supplemented and finally entrusted the larger portion of the Sharp collection, including the juvenile manuscr
ipts, to the Pierpont Morgan Library. Viljoen gave the books owned by Ruskin, including his childhood books, to the Beinecke.}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864  }{\i\insrsid2771864 YULG}{\insrsid2771864 
 49, no. 3 [January 1975]: 304. For details of the contents and distribution of the collection, see Burd, \'93Frederick James Sharp,\'94 and }{\i\insrsid2771864 RBB}{\insrsid2771864 
. Books, drawings, furniture, and other Ruskinalia also went directly from the Sharp collection (not via Viljoen) to Brantwood and Bembridge. Burd and Dearden forget to mention that Princeton was a beneficiary of Viljoen\rquote s be
quests of manuscripts, although I do not know whether these originated in the Sharp collection.}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 The provenance of manuscripts originally owned by Sharp (as opposed to items, such as the Sermon Books, that Viljoen added to the Sharp Collection) is designated throughout this edition as }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Sharp.}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
\par \tab }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Huntington}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 .\emdash Only two early manuscripts are held by the Henry E. Huntington Library and Art Gallery in San Marino, California, the \'93Practical Geometry\'94
 (MS XIA) and the Fragment on the Expedition of Darius into Scythia (part 1, \'93Undatable,\'94 no. C). A third, a group of autograph letters to Edward Clayton published in part as }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Letters Addressed to a College Friend}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864 , begin in 1839 and therefore lie just beyond the scope of this edition. Owing to the obscurity enshrouding the 
provenance of these and other manuscripts that form the core collection of Ruskin at the Huntington, a general introductory note proves more convenient than discussing the provenance of the two manuscripts separately.
\par \tab The earliest date when MS XIA can be definitely proved to have been in the Huntington Library\emdash i.e., a date for which a record exists of the manuscript having been charged out\emdash 
is 1955, at least twenty-five years after its presumed acquisition. In \'93A Checklist of Pre-Raphaelite Manuscripts in the Huntington Library,\'94 Sara S. Hodson describes the provenance of MS XIA as \'93unknown, but acquired before 1930.\'94}{
\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864 
 Sara S. Hodson, \'93A Checklist of Pre-Raphaelite Manuscripts in the Huntington Library,\'94 }{\i\insrsid2771864 Huntington Library Quarterly}{\insrsid2771864  55, no. 1 (Winter 1992): 196 (item 403).}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 The basis for this upper limiting date is not specified, which Hodson assigns also to some other items in the Ruskin collection. In any case, given that limiting date, the following possibilities can be hazarded on the basis of what can b
e more definitely established about the provenance of the core collection of Ruskin at the Huntington.
\par \tab A centerpiece of the core collection is Ruskin\rquote s 1872\endash 87 correspondence with his Coniston neighbor, Susanna Beever, along with other letters and documents relating to the publication of that correspondence as }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 
Hortus Inclusus}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , edited by Albert Fleming. This collection cannot be proved to have any association with MS XIA. I have searched Ruskin\rquote s letters to Beever in vain for clues that he might have given her the juvenile notebook.
}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{
\insrsid2771864  I unfortunately did not have time to search Beever\rquote s letters }{\i\insrsid2771864 to}{\insrsid2771864  Ruskin.}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 He does frequently mention loaning her other books, pictures, and manuscripts, however; and the filial, even infantile, stance that Ruskin adopted toward 
Beever suggests a greater likelihood that juvenilia was associated with this collection than with the library\rquote s other pre\endash 1930 acquisitions.
\par \tab If we entertain a possible connection with the Ruskin/Beever collection, the acquisition of MS XIA may be pushed back even further than 1930. According to the Huntington\rquote 
s earliest summary report of the Ruskin Collection, the 874 pieces in the Ruskin/Beever collection \'93have been in the Library since 1925. No source is known.\'94 At a later, unspecified time, an unknown p
erson scored through this remark and corrected, in ink, \'93Purchased from Goodspeed\rquote s, September 1923.\'94 This document makes no mention of MS XIA; \'93874 pieces\'94
 seems to refer only to letters. For that matter, however, the summary report fails to list }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 any}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  Ruskin manuscript besides the Ruskin/Beever correspondence as forming the \'93John Ruskin Collection,\'94
 even though the core collection is known to have included other manuscripts, such as several that were purchased from W. S. Allen in 1925 and from William Bixby in 1918. Thus, omissions from the earliest summary report prove only that the library\rquote 
s Ruskin materials remained uncataloged for many years.}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864  \'93John Ruskin Collection,\'94 typescript, HL, 7 pp. The title \'93John Ruskin Collection\'94 heads the report\rquote s first two
 pages, which are undated, and which, following a brief introductory biography of Ruskin, describe solely the Ruskin/Beever correspondence. A following two-page section of the report, entitled \'93John Ruskin letters to various persons\'94
 and dated 4 March 1954, lists various letters of 1850\endash 86, now cataloged, but notes that the \'93Ruskin-Beever-Fleming material,\'94 which is briefly described, \'93is uncatalogued.\'94
 By 16 December 1954, the Ruskin/Beever correspondence had been cataloged, when it was listed (retaining its original designation \'93John Ruskin Collection\'94 from the summary report\rquote 
s first two pages) along with other groupings of Ruskin letters in yet another two-page extension of the summary report, \'93John Ruskin Manuscripts in the Henry E. Huntington Library.\'94 Here also is the first mention of MS XIA (\'93
Geometry exercise book,\'94 A.MS., 38 leaves, 4to., HM 6103), listed along with other autograph manuscripts, which had now been cataloged separately from the groupings of letters. (Finally, at a later date, a seventh page was added to the summary report, 
\'93Additional Ruskin letters.\'94) After the catalogings of 1954 were completed, MS XIA, the \'93Practical Geometry,\'94 could be charged to a patron\emdash hence, the initial record of the manuscript\rquote s existence in the library, a char
ge-out record of 1955.
\par }}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 \tab Thus, the Huntington\rquote s summary report of the Ruskin collection proves only that cataloging proceeded very slowly. Other manuscripts besides the Ruskin/Beever correspond
ence must have been present in the library when the first two-page summary report was prepared, since Hodson lists, for example, several items that were purchased from W. S. Allen in 1925 (\'93Checklist,\'94 194\endash 
96 [items 390, 392, 398, 402, 404]). One suspects, in fact, that it was a confusion with the Allen lot that led the author of the original summary report to claim that the Ruskin/Beever letters \'93have been in the Library since 1925.\'94
\par \tab Regrettably, no record of a 1923 Goodspeed transaction can presently be 
found. In one respect, the year 1923 is surprising, since, in his autobiography, the Boston book dealer mentions no acquisitions of manuscripts prior to the Sotheby sales of 1930 and 1931. Goodspeed does remark, however, that, for many years during trips 
to England, he routinely stocked up on Ruskin first editions to supply a steady market in America (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 YB}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
, 262). Perhaps during one of these expeditions, he was able to acquire the Ruskin/Beever collection. In another respect, September 1923 is not surprising as the date of acquisition, since Albert Fleming, the heir of Beever\rquote 
s Ruskin correspondence and the editor of }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Hortus Inclusus}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , died on 21 March 1923 at his home in Skelwith Bridge near Ambleside.}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864 
 I owe this information to James Dearden, who obtained it from Fleming\rquote s death certificate.}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
\par \tab Prior to coming (putatively) into Goodspeed\rquote s hands, the Ruskin/Beever correspondence is last known to have been owned by Fleming, who removed the letters from Beever\rquote s home. Although letters and manuscripts related to }{
\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Hortus}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 have ended up widely scattered among collections in England and America, the Huntington obviously holds the main lode that belonged to Fleming, since it includes his own correspondence and other documents concerning the publication and revision of }{
\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Hortus}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 .}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864  See John Hayman, \'93John Ruskin\rquote s }{\i\insrsid2771864 Hortus Inclusus}{\insrsid2771864 : The Manuscript Sources and Publication History,\'94 }
{\i\insrsid2771864 Huntington Library Quarterly}{\insrsid2771864  52, no. 3 (Summer 1989): 372, 375\endash 83, 385 n. 20. The Huntington collection includes an exchange, reconstructed by Hayman, 
between Fleming and Wedderburn concerning the right to publish previously unpublished letters\emdash i.e., whether that right was vested exclusively in Ruskin\rquote 
s executors or, in the case of Ruskin himself having awarded rights to Beever and Fleming, vested in the manuscripts\rquote  owner. At least one of Fleming\rquote 
s letters, Hayman makes clear, is a copy, as would be expected if the collection represents his side of the correspondence. Fleming\rquote s quarrel with Wedderburn also accounts for the more tangential items in the collection, such as a copy of Ruskin
\rquote s will in Fleming\rquote s hand (Hodson, \'93Checklist,\'94 195 [item 396]), and newspaper clippings about a debate over the propriety of including Ruskin\rquote s unpublished manuscript variants in the Library Edition.
\par }}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 \tab Fleming did turn ov
er the letters to E. T. Cook for editing in the Library Edition, but, especially in view of his thorny relations with Cook and Wedderburn, it is highly unlikely that he would have relinquished ownership. In his introduction to the volumes of letters for t
he Library Edition, Cook is careful to specify that Beever \'93bequeathed her Ruskin letters\'94 to Fleming, who \'93has some nine hundred of them\'94 (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Works}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  36:cviii).
\par \tab The Lake District connection with Fleming is highly suggestive for the provenance not only of these
 letters but also of Ruskin juvenilia that might have accompanied them in a sale. Another collector who depended largely on Lake District sources to amass his Ruskin collection, Haddon Clifford Adams, owned a holograph preface to }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 
Hortus Inclusus}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  as well as some juvenilia (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RBB}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  198, and see MS IC, \'93Provenance\'94). This is not to imply that Adams might have served as Goodspeed\rquote 
s source for the Ruskin/Beever collection, for Adams would surely have kept such a find for himself. Rather, the intersection between the Adams collection and Goodspeed\rquote 
s putative 1923 sale to the Huntington points to Lake District sources. These could include Fleming himself, who might have made arrangements for the collection before he died;}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864  Suggestively, included among the ephemera in 
the Huntington\rquote s Ruskin/Beever collection is a newspaper clipping of prices that autograph letters by eminent people were currently fetching, as if Fleming had been assessing his holdings.}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
 an Ambleside dealer, Arnold Varty, who is definitely known to have offered Ruskin/Beever material\emdash Beever\rquote s sketchbook\emdash 
although Dearden suggests that Varty would have acquired this sketchbook later than the time I am discussing, at the 1931 Brantwood sale (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RBB}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  118\endash 
19); T. H. Telford, the Grasmere dealer, who did acquire materials from Brantwood prior to the sales of the 1930s, and who is known to have held at least a few Ruskin/Beever letters (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RBB}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  212\endash 
13); and, at Brantwood itself, Violet Severn and the Wilkinson family, who sold items directly to collectors, including Adams, prior to the authorized auctions (see above, }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Viljoen}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  and }{
\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Sharp}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 ).
\par \tab If the Huntington\rquote s Ruskin juvenilia did not come to the library along with the purchase through Goodspeed of the Ruskin/Beever/Fleming materials, it might have been connected with other sources of the Ruskin collection acquired \'93
before 1930.\'94 The most intriguing of these is one listed by Hodson as \'93William K. Bixby, 1918, through George D. Smith\'94 (\'93Checklist,\'94 197, 198, 201 [items 406, 408, 421 442\endash 43]). Bixby was a St. Louis industriali
st and collector, who, probably in 1902, acquired from George Allen the important manuscripts of }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 The Seven Lamps of Architecture}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 ; two essays of }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Unto This Last}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
; and, most significant for our purposes, twenty-four autograph Ruskin letters to Edward Clayton, twenty-two of which were published in 1894 as }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Letters Addressed to a College Friend}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
. These were sold as part of Bixby\rquote s private collection to Henry Huntington in 1918.}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain \s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864  }{\i\insrsid2771864 National Cyclopaedia of American Biography}{\insrsid2771864  (New York: James T. White, 1939), 27:23. Th
e same source mentions that Bixby donated a large collection to the Bibliophile Society of Boston, of which he was a prominent member. Boston, of course, was the most important early center of Ruskin collecting in the United States, where Goodspeed and ot
hers pursued Ruskin, owing probably to the influence of Ruskin\rquote s friend Charles Eliot Norton at Harvard.}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 \tab Bixby\rquote 
s ownership of these manuscripts is confirmed by the Library Edition, if sketchily, although here Bixby\rquote s source is identified as George Allen, rather than as George D. Smith (of Smith, Elder, Ruskin\rquote 
s publisher prior to Allen), named in the Huntington record. For the Clayton letters, Bixby is identified by name as the owner, while the seller is not identified, although Allen was the publisher of the 1894 volume (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Works}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864  1: 400; see also Sidney M. B. Coulling, \'93Two Unpublished Letters of John Ruskin to Edward Clayton,\'94 }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Huntington Library Quarterly}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  27 [1963]: 87\endash 
92). The reverse is the case in the Library Edition volumes of }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Seven Lamps}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  and }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Unto This Last}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 , where the \'93American collector\'94
 is left anonymous, while Allen is identified as the seller (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Works}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  8: 278, 17: cxiii). The editors attach a specific date of sale, 1902, only to the }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Seven Lamps}{
\fs22\insrsid2771864  manuscript.
\par \tab Bixby\rquote s group of Clayton letters provides the nearest relative in the Ruskin collection to the prose translation from Herodotus, the Fragment on the Expedition of Darius into Scythia, whose provenance is otherwise \'93unknown; in library 1961
\'94 (Hodson, \'93Checklist,\'94 195 [item 395]). As discussed in the note on dating this manuscript in part 1 (\'93Undatable,\'94 no. C), the fragment may have been written between 1837 and 1840 at Oxford, where Ruskin\rquote 
s study of Herodotus inspired the composition of such poems as \'93The Tears of Psammenitus,\'94 which he discusses in the Clayton letters (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Works}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  1:434\endash 
44). The topics and dates of the fragment and the Clayton letters roughly correspond, although no documentation establishes a shared provenance.
\par \tab Other pre\endash 1930 provenances of Ruskin material at the Huntington furnish no clues about early manuscripts. Most prominent is a 1925 lot acquired from William S. Allen. He had been disposing of his family\rquote 
s Ruskin inheritance since the second decade of the century (}{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 RBB}{\fs22\insrsid2771864  34), and, were it not for the attribution of the Ruskin/Beever colle
ction to Goodspeed, the Allens could be considered a logical source of that collection, since George Allen published }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 Hortus Inclusus}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
. The Allen sale to the Huntington, however, appears to be solidly established as consisting of manuscripts of the 1850s and afterwards, not letters or earlier manuscripts.}{\fs22\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn {\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li720\ri0\sb120\sa120\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\super\insrsid2771864 \chftn }{\insrsid2771864  One other early source for the Huntington collection
\emdash George D. Smith, of Smith, Elder, Ruskin\rquote s publisher\emdash is listed as a connection with the Bixby collection, as well as a direct source (Hodson, \'93Checklist,\'94
 195 [item 393]), but it is difficult to imagine why Smith would possess juvenilia. Hodson also lists early purchases from Maggs and Anderson Galleries, but these items are documented by sales catalogs.}}}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 
\par 
\par Descriptions of the Major Manuscripts
\par \tab The descriptions of manuscripts in part 2 are self-explanatory. Readers might first consult \'93A Preliminary Descriptive Overview of the Juvenilia,\'94 above, for explanation of certain recurrent physical features, e.g., }{\i\fs22\insrsid2771864 
Red Book}{\fs22\insrsid2771864 .
\par }}