{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\fswiss \fcharset0 \fprq2 Arial Unicode MS;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
{\s1 \qj _26;}
{\s2 \qj\fi-720\li1440\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _25;}
{\s3 \qj\li2160\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _24;}
{\s4 \qj\li2880\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _23;}
{\s5 \qj\li3600\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _22;}
{\s6 \qj\li4320\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _21;}
{\s7 \qj\li5040\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _20;}
{\s8 \qj\li5760\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _19;}
{\s9 \qj\li6480\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _18;}
{\s10 \qj\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _17;}
{\s11 \qj\fi-720\li1440\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _16;}
{\s12 \qj\li2160\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _15;}
{\s13 \qj\li2880\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _14;}
{\s14 \qj\li3600\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _13;}
{\s15 \qj\li4320\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _12;}
{\s16 \qj\li5040\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _11;}
{\s17 \qj\li5760\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _10;}
{\s18 \qj\li6480\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _9;}
{\s19 \qj\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _8;}
{\s20 \qj\fi-720\li1440\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _7;}
{\s21 \qj\li2160\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _6;}
{\s22 \qj\li2880\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _5;}
{\s23 \qj\li3600\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _4;}
{\s24 \qj\li4320\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _3;}
{\s25 \qj\li5040\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _2;}
{\s26 \qj\li5760\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _1;}
{\s27 \qj\li6480\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920 _;}
{\*\cs28 \additive Default Para;}
}\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstpg\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs22
\tab Red book; 9.8 {\u215\'d7} 15.2 cm; 38 leaves (counting from Yale bookplate, and including final \softline
leaf or endpaper, which has been partially glued to back board), of which 2r-15r numbered by \softline
Ruskin as pp. 1-29; watermark 1823. The leaf 31r-v has been attached to 30v with tape, and a \softline
stub along the inside margin of 31v shows that a leaf has been torn out. Following 31v, the \softline
gathering 32r-37v is loose and could be missing outermost leaves.\par
\tab The inside front board is blank except for Yale{\u8217\'92}s bookplate and, unlike the other Red \softline
Books in the slipcase  Harry & Lucy,  does not have glued or tipped in a brief description of the \softline
notebook penned by Wedderburn(?) with a clipping from {\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 PJR}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 . MS IIIA was never described by \softline
the earlier editors, however, neither in }{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 PJR}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  nor in }{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 Works}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 . Wedderburn, or whoever was \softline
responsible for slipcasing the juvenilia, was evidently content to include MS IIIA in the  Harry and \softline
Lucy  slipcase, where it logically belonged.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab Title page (1r):  HARRY AND LUCY / CONCLUDED / BEING / THE LAST PART / OF / \softline
EARLY LESSONS / BY / JOHN RUSKIN / IN FOUR VOLUMES / VOL III / HERNHILL / \softline
DULWICH.  On back of the title page (1v), Ruskin imitated a printed page of  ERRATA. \par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab Unlike the  Harry and Lucy  narratives in MS I and III, this volume of the tale is written \softline
entirely in ink; however, this volume contains no  plates,  for which pencil had been reserved in \softline
MS III, even when the text was ink. Later in MS IIIA, the mineralogy notes and sermon draft are \softline
written in pencil.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab The pages following  Harry and Lucy  that are blank except for Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s page numbering \softline
(pp. 10-29) must have been intended for the continuation of the narrative, since Ruskin prepared \softline
the pages in the same way as pp. 1-9--i.e., with verticle rules in pencil near the inside and \softline
outside margins, serving as guides to  justify  Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s printing.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \fs22 \tab Viljoen misdated MS IIIA as autumn 1828, 1829-30, 1832. The mineralogy notes, no. 172, \softline
are presumably no earlier than the note on payment for the  Homer  and for  mineralogy articles,  \softline
which precedes the notes written from the end of the volume. Payment for Homer must refer to \softline
translating the }{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 Iliad}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  (no. 160a) in late February 1832:  But Homer! I am happy to inform you, sir, \softline
that I have translated about 550 lines of the first book. . . . These however I do suppose are news \softline
to you extremely unwelcome --unwelcome owing to what John James will have to pay (}{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 RFL}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  268-69). The following mineralogy notes were entered considerably later, I believe, probably after \softline
December 1832 (see note to no. 172). Finally, following the mineralogical notes, the rough draft \softline
of the eighteenth }{\plain \fs22 \ul\fs22 Sermon on the Pentateuch}{\plain \fs22 \fs22  could have been entered anytime in 1833 after \softline
sermons VIII-X were drafted early in that year (see nos. 174-75).}}