{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\froman \fcharset0 \fprq2 Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
}\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstpg\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs24
\tab Owing to Ruskin{\u8217\'92}s dismemberment of the book, the original order of the pages is uncertain. As \softline
presently arranged, the content is as follows.\par
\tab {\plain \fs24 \ul a}{\plain \fs24 ) [get order right at Lancaster] As inscribed by Ruskin later? (see Facets 89):  Gateway at \softline
Maidstone 1831; Maidstone Church 1831; Dover Cliffs; Abbey near Dover see }{\plain \fs24 \ul Fors}{\plain \fs24  [St. Radigund{\u8217\'92}s \softline
Abbey; see Fors 27:491]; My first tree from nature 1831; Gateway of a college at Maidstone inside \softline
view.  Uninscribed drawings that Dearden identifies with help of Mary Richardson{\u8217\'92}s sketchbook: Leeds \softline
Castle near Maidstone; Ruins of the Roman Tower,  Dover Castle built by Julius Ceasar ; architectural \softline
details from the end of the S.W. transept of Canterbury Cathedral.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul b}{\plain \fs24 ) Drawings detached for Gale: half of top part of central tower of Canterbury Cathedral, \softline
inscribed by Ruskin  My first as ever was drawing of architecture, 1832. J. Ruskin signed 15 January \softline
1880 ; carving and pinnacles above entrance of the S.W. porch of Canterbury Cathedral, inscribed by \softline
Ruskin  J. Ruskin. Canterbury South porch 1832. Signed 15 January 1880. \par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \ul c}{\plain \fs24 )dismembered book{\u8217\'92}s sketches are followed by mineralogical notes (no. 157), then more \softline
sketches, and then more mineralogy. The mineralogy might have been written either later in 1831 \softline
following the summer tour, or in 1832 following another summer tour to the southeast--the latter tour \softline
also apparently recorded by sketches in the notebook. (In fact, the notes may well date from both \softline
times; and another prose item--the notes on a military drill witnessed at Dover Castle, no. 166--while \softline
appearing at the very start of the present arrangement, may have been written during either of the \softline
family{\u8217\'92}s visits to Dover in 1831 and 1832.)}}