{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\froman \fcharset0 \fprq2 Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
}\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstpg\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \sbknone\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs24
\tab {\plain \fs24 \i Sharp.}{\plain \fs24  In Collingwood{\u8217\'92}s time, this 1830 travel diary was included in a  cover  along with some \softline
other items  in the possession of Mrs. Arthur Severn  (}{\plain \fs24 \ul PJR}{\plain \fs24 , 1:267). See }{\plain \fs24 \i Sotheby{\u8217\'92}s 1930}{\plain \fs24  for other tour-related manuscripts that were given to Joan Severn.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab As noted by Cook and Wedderburn in their description of MS X (}{\plain \fs24 \ul Works}{\plain \fs24 , 2:534), the 1830 \softline
diary was later bound separately from MS X. This history, remarks Dearden, as well as bad selection \softline
and lotting from Brantwood by Sotheby{\u8217\'92}s, explains how the manuscript became separated from the \softline
other diaries (}{\plain \fs24 \ul RBB}{\plain \fs24 , 49). SEE ALSO BURD{\u8217\'92}S ACCOUNT IN TLC 4.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Eventually, the diary found its way into the hands of Sharp--all except for two leaves, which \softline
had been kept apart at the time of binding and donated by Joan Severn to the Coniston Museum. In the \softline
manuscript, these two leaves were replaced by a transcript in Collingwood{\u8217\'92}s hand. (Presently, the \softline
museum exhibits copies of these leaves, while the originals are deposited at the Cumbria Record Office, \softline
County Offices, Kendal, Cumbria.) The diary especially became a bone of contention between Sharp \softline
and J. H. Whitehouse, who had acquired most of the diaries (for this story, see }{\plain \fs24 \ul TLC}{\plain \fs24 , 4-5; }{\plain \fs24 \ul RBB}{\plain \fs24 , 182-83; and Van Akin Burd,  Frederick James Sharp, 1880-1957,  }{\plain \fs24 \ul Book Collector}{\plain \fs24  44, no. 4 [Winter \softline
1995]: 554-57). Like all the manuscripts in Sharp{\u8217\'92}s possession, the diary was bequeathed to Helen Gill \softline
Viljoen and eventually was donated to the Morgan Library.}}